content/management/limits/index.mdx, before:

---
weight: 40
category: "management"
title: "Limits"
tagline: "Resource limits in LiveChat Platform via dedicated APIs"
desc: "There are some limitations to amount of different resources that can be created, based on license plan."
---

# Introduction

Based on the <a href="https://www.livechat.com/pricing/" target="_blank">billing plan</a>, the LiveChat Platform limits the number of resources that can be created.

# Resource Limits

| Limited resource              | Starter | Team | Business | Enterprise |
|-------------------------------|---------|------|----------|------------|
| Agents                        | 400     | 400  | 400      | 400        |
| Chat archives history         | 2m      | 1y   | 2y       | unlimited  |
| Chat queue                    | 10      | 50   | 100      | 100        |
| Chat queue (continuous chats) | 150     | 150  | 150      | 150        |
| Groups                        | 1       | 20   | 40       | 80         |
| Groups assigned to an agent   | 1       | 10   | 20       | 40         |
| Groups in group chooser       | 1       | 25   | 25       | 25         |
| Number of banned visitors     | 50      | 200  | 400      | 400        |
| Tracked visitors              | 400     | 400  | 400      | 400        |

There is a new type of error, `limit_reached`. Our APIs will return it when you try to create a resource over the limit.

Affected methods are:

## Agent Chat API

- [List Archives](../../messaging/agent-chat-api/#list-archives)
- [Ban Customer](../../messaging/agent-chat-api/#ban-customer)

## Configuration API

### v3

- [Create Group](../configuration-api/#create-group)
- [Update Group](../configuration-api/#update-group)
- [Create Agent](../configuration-api/#create-agent)
- [Update Agent](../configuration-api/#update-agent)

### v2

- [/agents](../configuration-api/v2.0/#agents)
- [/groups](../configuration-api/v2.0/#groups)

# Downgrading

When downgrading a plan, resource usage is validated against the new plan's limits, which might result in an error. The returned error message will list all the resources you need to decrease in order to downgrade successfully.

Commit message:

Tweak description of methods affected by limits

content/management/limits/index.mdx, after:

---
weight: 40
category: "management"
title: "Limits"
tagline: "Resource limits in LiveChat Platform via dedicated APIs"
desc: "There are some limitations to amount of different resources that can be created, based on license plan."
---

# Introduction

Based on the <a href="https://www.livechat.com/pricing/" target="_blank">billing plan</a>, the LiveChat Platform limits the number of resources that can be created.

# Resource Limits

| Limited resource              | Starter | Team | Business | Enterprise |
|-------------------------------|---------|------|----------|------------|
| Agents                        | 400     | 400  | 400      | 400        |
| Chat archives history         | 2m      | 1y   | 2y       | unlimited  |
| Chat queue                    | 10      | 50   | 100      | 100        |
| Chat queue (continuous chats) | 150     | 150  | 150      | 150        |
| Groups                        | 1       | 20   | 40       | 80         |
| Groups assigned to an agent   | 1       | 10   | 20       | 40         |
| Groups in group chooser       | 1       | 25   | 25       | 25         |
| Number of banned visitors     | 50      | 200  | 400      | 400        |
| Tracked visitors              | 400     | 400  | 400      | 400        |

There is a new type of error, `limit_reached`. Our APIs will return it when you try to create a resource over the limit. You may get this error when working with the following methods:

## Agent Chat API

- [List Archives](../../messaging/agent-chat-api/#list-archives)
- [Ban Customer](../../messaging/agent-chat-api/#ban-customer)

## Configuration API

### v3

- [Create Group](../configuration-api/#create-group)
- [Update Group](../configuration-api/#update-group) *
- [Create Agent](../configuration-api/#create-agent)
- [Update Agent](../configuration-api/#update-agent) *

* Note: this method can change groups assigned to an agent.

### v2

- [/agents](../configuration-api/v2.0/#agents)
- [/groups](../configuration-api/v2.0/#groups)

# Downgrading

When downgrading a plan, resource usage is validated against the new plan's limits, which might result in an error. The returned error message will list all the resources you need to decrease in order to downgrade successfully.
