src/pages/authorization/index.mdx, before:

---
weight: 1
category: "authorization"
title: 'Authorization Overview'
tagline: 'Learn about LiveChat Authorization.'
desc: 'Learn about LiveChat Accounts, a service where you can configure options and resources common for all products.'
slug: "/authorization/"
---

# Introduction

To interact with the LiveChat APIs, you need to provide an access token. The app you're building needs to obtain the access token from the user in order to call the LiveChat APIs on the user's behalf.

# Global Accounts

Before you jump into implementing an authorization flow in your app, make sure you understand what Global Accounts is.

- <SectionLink to={"/authorization/global-accounts/"}>Global Accounts</SectionLink>

- <SectionLink to={"/authorization/global-accounts-api/"}>Global Accounts API</SectionLink>

# Authorization tutorials

Read about different authorization flows you can implement in your integration.

- <SectionLink to={"/authorization/authorizing-api-calls/"}>Authorizating API calls</SectionLink>

- <SectionLink to={"/authorization/authorization-in-practice/"}>Authorization in practice</SectionLink>

- <SectionLink to={"/authorization/sign-in-with-livechat/"}>Sign in with LiveChat</SectionLink>

# Scopes

Scopes define access to certain resources. Your app will ask users for access to those resources during the installation.

<SectionLink to={"/authorization/scopes/"}>Scopes</SectionLink>

# Troubleshooting

Common questions and problems related to authorization.

<SectionLink to={"/authorization/faq/"}>Authorization FAQ</SectionLink>

Commit message:

embed authorization video in docs

src/pages/authorization/index.mdx, after:

---
weight: 1
category: "authorization"
title: 'Authorization Overview'
tagline: 'Learn about LiveChat Authorization.'
desc: 'Learn about LiveChat Accounts, a service where you can configure options and resources common for all products.'
slug: "/authorization/"
---

# Introduction

To interact with the LiveChat APIs, you need to provide an access token. The app you're building needs to obtain the access token from the user in order to call the LiveChat APIs on the user's behalf.

# Global Accounts

Before you jump into implementing an authorization flow in your app, make sure you understand what Global Accounts is.

- <SectionLink to={"/authorization/global-accounts/"}>Global Accounts</SectionLink>

- <SectionLink to={"/authorization/global-accounts-api/"}>Global Accounts API</SectionLink>

# Authorization tutorials

Read about different authorization flows you can implement in your integration.

- <SectionLink to={"/authorization/authorizing-api-calls/"}>Authorizating API calls</SectionLink>

- <SectionLink to={"/authorization/authorization-in-practice/"}>Authorization in practice</SectionLink>

- <SectionLink to={"/authorization/sign-in-with-livechat/"}>Sign in with LiveChat</SectionLink>

# Video explainers

If you'd like to see our authorization flows explained live, watch the video tutorials on that topic.

## Agent Chat API authorization

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-EUZ_Ynvz5Q"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

# Scopes

Scopes define access to certain resources. Your app will ask users for access to those resources during the installation.

<SectionLink to={"/authorization/scopes/"}>Scopes</SectionLink>

# Troubleshooting

Common questions and problems related to authorization.

<SectionLink to={"/authorization/faq/"}>Authorization FAQ</SectionLink>
