content/data-reporting/reports-api/v3.4/index.mdx, before:

---
weight: 10
category: "data-reporting"
subcategory: "reports-api"
title: "Reports API"
tagline: "Access and extract data from Reports."
desc: "See how you can access and extract data from Reports with the use of Reports API."
versionGroup: "data-reporting"
apiVersion: "3.4"
---

# Introduction

Reports API allows you to **access** and **extract** all the [Reports](https://www.livechat.com/kb/reporting-options-available-in-livechat/) data available in LiveChat.

## Versioning

This document describes the **LiveChat Reports API v3.4**. This is the developer preview version that provides a preview of the upcoming changes to the API. **It's not open to public use.** However, if you want to test some features, contact us at developers@livechat.com or <a href="#open-chat" onClick={openChatWindow}>ask on the chat</a>, and we'll give you access.

## Authorization

To call the Reports API, you need to use a Bearer access token. [Learn how to get it.](/authorization/authorizing-api-calls/#implicit-grant)

# Methods

| The API endpoint                                               |
| -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/<resource>/<action>` |

## Headers

**Common headers for all methods:**

| Header          | Value            | Required | Notes                                                |
| --------------- | ---------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `Authorization` | `Bearer <token>` | Yes      | Your access token                                    |
| `X-API-Version` | `3.4`            | No       | The API version. You can also specify it in the URL. |

**Additional headers specifically for the POST methods:**

| Header         | Value              | Required |
| -------------- | ------------------ | -------- |
| `Content-Type` | `application/json` | Yes      |

<Section>
<Text>

## Available methods

|           |                                                                                                                                                   |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Chats** | [`agents_chatting_duration`](#agents-chatting-duration) [`tags`](#tags) [`total_chats`](#total-chats) [`ratings`](#ratings) [`ranking`](#ranking) |

## Available parameters and filters

| Parameter                                                             | Required | Data type | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `distribution`                                                        | No       | `string`  | Allowed values: `hour`, `day`, `day-hours`, `month` or `year`. Defaults to `day`.                                                                                                                                                           |
| `timezone`                                                            | No       | `string`  | IANA [Time Zone](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) (e.g. America/Phoenix). Defaults to the requester's timezone. When the requester's timezone isn't present, then `filters.from` is parsed to get the timezone. |
| `filters`                                                             | No       | `object`  | If none provided, your report will span the last seven days.                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `filters.from`                                                        | No       | `string`  | Date & time format compatible with RFC3339 with optional resolution of microseconds, `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.ssssssZHH:MM`.                                                                                                                    |
| `filters.to`                                                          | No       | `string`  | Date & time format compatible with RFC3339 with optional resolution of microseconds, `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.ssssssZHH:MM`.                                                                                                                    |
| `filters.properties.<namespace>.<name>.<filter_type>`<sup>**1**</sup> | No       | `any`     | Described below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `filters.agents.<string_filter_type>`<sup>**2**</sup>                 | No       | `any`     | Described below; `exists` set to `false` will return unassigned chats; `true` will return the assigned ones.                                                                                                                                |
| `filters.tags.<string_filter_type>`<sup>**2**</sup>                   | No       | `any`     | Described below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `filters.sales.<integer_filter_type>`<sup>**3**</sup>                 | No       | `any`     | Described below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `filters.goals.<integer_filter_type>`<sup>**3**</sup>                 | No       | `any`     | Described below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `filters.surveys.<survey>`<sup>**4**</sup>                            | No       | `array`   | Described below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `filters.event_types.<event_type_filter_type>`<sup>**5**</sup>        | No       | `any`     | Described below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `filters.groups.values`                                               | No       | `array`   | Array of group IDs.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

</Text>
<Code>
</Code>
</Section>

**1)** `<filter_type>` can take the following values:

- `exists` (`bool`)
- `values` (`type[]` - an array with aspecific type for property: `string`, `int` or `bool`)
- `exclude_values` (`type[]` - array with specific type for property: `string`, `int` or `bool`)

There's only one value allowed for a single property.

List of default properties can be found [**here**](/messaging/references/default-properties/#reference).

**2)** `<string_filter_type>` can take only one of the following values:

- `exists` (`bool`)
- `values` (`string[]` - an array of strings)
- `exclude_values` (`string[]` - an array of strings)

**3)** `<integer_filter_type>` can take only one of the following values:

- `exists` (`bool`)
- `values` (`int[]` - an array of integers)
- `exclude_values` (`int[]` - an array of integers)

**4)** `<survey>` contains the following fields:

- `type` (`string`) - allowed values: `pre_chat`, `post_chat`
- `answer_id` (`string`)

**5)** `<event_type_filter_type>` can take only one of the following values:

- `values` (`string[]` - an array of [Event](/messaging/agent-chat-api/v3.4/#events) types, duplicates are ignored)
- `exclude_values` (`string[]` - an array of [Event](/messaging/agent-chat-api/v3.4/#events) types, duplicates are ignored)

<CodeResponse version="v3.4" type="reports" title={'Sample filters'} json="filters" />

The JSON payload above translates into the following query string:

<CodeSample path={'FILTERS AS QUERY STRING PARAMS'}>

```shell
?filters.from=2021-03-01T23:59:59-00:00
&filters.to=2021-04-13T23:59:59-00:00
&filters.properties[routing][continuous].values=true
&filters.agents.values=joe@acme.com
&filters.agents.values=alice@acme.com
&filters.tags.exclude_values=spam
&filters.event_types.values=file
```

</CodeSample>

💡 Notice the square brackets `[]` when using GET query string params to define `properties.<namespace>` and `properties.<namespace>.<name>`.

## Chats

<Section>
<Text>

### Agents Chatting Duration

Shows the average chatting duration of agents within a license.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                                           |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/agents_chatting_duration` |
| **HTTP method**     | POST, GET                                                                 |
| **Required scopes** | `reports_read`                                                            |

#### Request

See [available parameters and filters](#available-parameters-and-filters).

#### Response

| Field                 | Notes                                                  |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `total`               | The total number of chats in the specified date range. |
| `records`             | Contains `distribution` objects, for example, `day`.   |
| `records.day.count`   | The total number of chats `agents` had that `day`.     |
| `records.day.seconds` | The average chat duration `agents` had that `day`.     |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl -X POST \
https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/agents_chatting_duration \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>' \
  -d '{
    "distribution": "day",
    "filters": {
      "from": "2021-04-08T00:00:00-00:00",
      "to": "2021-04-15T23:59:59-00:00"
    }
  }'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.4" json="agentsChattingDuration"/>

</Code>
</Section>

<Section>
<Text>

### Tags

Shows the distribution of tags for chats.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                       |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/tags` |
| **HTTP method**     | POST, GET                                             |
| **Required scopes** | `reports_read`                                        |

#### Request

See [available parameters and filters](#available-parameters-and-filters).

#### Response

| Field               | Notes                                                    |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `total`             | The total number of chats in the specified date range.   |
| `records`           | Contains the `distribution` objects, for example, `day`. |
| `records.day.<tag>` | The total number of chats tagged with `<tag>`.           |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl -X POST \
https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/tags \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>' \
  -d '{
    "distribution": "day",
    "filters": {
      "from": "2021-04-08T00:00:00-00:00",
      "to": "2021-04-15T23:59:59-00:00"
    }
  }'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.4" json="tags"/>

</Code>
</Section>

<Section>
<Text>

### Total Chats

Shows how many chats occurred during the specified period.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                              |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/total_chats` |
| **HTTP method**     | POST, GET                                                    |
| **Required scopes** | `reports_read`                                               |

#### Request

See [available parameters and filters](#available-parameters-and-filters).

#### Response

| Field                    | Notes                                                    |
| ------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `total`                  | The total number of chats in the specified date range.   |
| `records`                | Contains the `distribution` objects, for example, `day`. |
| `records.day.total`      | The total number of chats that `day`.                    |
| `records.day.continuous` | The number of continuous chats that `day`.               |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl -X POST \
https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/total_chats \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>' \
  -d '{
    "distribution": "day",
    "filters": {
      "from": "2021-04-08T00:00:00-00:00",
      "to": "2021-04-15T23:59:59-00:00"
    }
  }'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.4" json="totalChats"/>

</Code>
</Section>

<Section>
<Text>

### Ratings

Shows the number of rated chats along with their ratings during a specified period of time.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                              |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/ratings`     |
| **HTTP method**     | POST, GET                                                    |
| **Required scopes** | `reports_read`                                               |

#### Request

See [available parameters and filters](#available-parameters-and-filters).

#### Response

| Field                    | Notes                                                    |
| ------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `total`                  | The total number of chats in the specified date range.   |
| `records`                | Contains the `distribution` objects, for example, `day`. |
| `records.day.chats`      | The total number of chats that `day`.                    |
| `records.day.bad`        | The number of chats rated `bad` that `day`.              |
| `records.day.good`       | The number of chats rated `good` that `day`.             |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl -X POST \
https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/ratings \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>' \
  -d '{
    "distribution": "day",
    "filters": {
      "from": "2021-04-08T00:00:00-00:00",
      "to": "2021-04-15T23:59:59-00:00"
    }
  }'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.4" json="ratings"/>

</Code>
</Section>

<Section>
<Text>

### Ranking

Shows the ratio of good to bad ratings for each operator.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                              |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/ranking`     |
| **HTTP method**     | POST, GET                                                    |
| **Required scopes** | `reports_read`                                               |

#### Request

See [available parameters and filters](#available-parameters-and-filters). 💡 Notice that the distribution parameter will have no effect on the response of this method.

#### Response

| Field                    | Notes                                                                                                                  |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ranking`                | Contains the `agent` objects.                                                                                          |
| `ranking.agent.total`    | The total number of chats an agent had in the specified period.                                                        |
| `ranking.agent.good`     | The number of agent's chats rated `good`.                                                                              |
| `ranking.agent.bad`      | The number of agent's chats rated `bad`.                                                                               |
| `ranking.agent.score`    | The agent's score. [Read more about how we calculate agent rankings...](https://www.livechat.com/help/agent-rankings/) |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl -X POST \
https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/ranking \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>' \
  -d '{
    "filters": {
      "from": "2021-04-08T00:00:00-00:00",
      "to": "2021-04-15T23:59:59-00:00"
    }
  }'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.4" json="ranking"/>

</Code>
</Section>

# Contact us

If you found a bug or a typo, you can create an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/livechat/livechat-public-docs/). In case of any questions or feedback, don't hesitate to contact us at [developers@livechat.com](mailto:developers@livechat.com)

Commit message:

(API-9080) Add require_every_value to list_archives and reports filters (#983)

content/data-reporting/reports-api/v3.4/index.mdx, after:

---
weight: 10
category: "data-reporting"
subcategory: "reports-api"
title: "Reports API"
tagline: "Access and extract data from Reports."
desc: "See how you can access and extract data from Reports with the use of Reports API."
versionGroup: "data-reporting"
apiVersion: "3.4"
---

# Introduction

Reports API allows you to **access** and **extract** all the [Reports](https://www.livechat.com/kb/reporting-options-available-in-livechat/) data available in LiveChat.

## Versioning

This document describes the **LiveChat Reports API v3.4**. This is the developer preview version that provides a preview of the upcoming changes to the API. **It's not open to public use.** However, if you want to test some features, contact us at developers@livechat.com or <a href="#open-chat" onClick={openChatWindow}>ask on the chat</a>, and we'll give you access.

## Authorization

To call the Reports API, you need to use a Bearer access token. [Learn how to get it.](/authorization/authorizing-api-calls/#implicit-grant)

# Methods

| The API endpoint                                               |
| -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/<resource>/<action>` |

## Headers

**Common headers for all methods:**

| Header          | Value            | Required | Notes                                                |
| --------------- | ---------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `Authorization` | `Bearer <token>` | Yes      | Your access token                                    |
| `X-API-Version` | `3.4`            | No       | The API version. You can also specify it in the URL. |

**Additional headers specifically for the POST methods:**

| Header         | Value              | Required |
| -------------- | ------------------ | -------- |
| `Content-Type` | `application/json` | Yes      |

<Section>
<Text>

## Available methods

|           |                                                                                                                                                   |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Chats** | [`agents_chatting_duration`](#agents-chatting-duration) [`tags`](#tags) [`total_chats`](#total-chats) [`ratings`](#ratings) [`ranking`](#ranking) |

## Available parameters and filters

| Parameter                                                             | Required | Data type | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `distribution`                                                        | No       | `string`  | Allowed values: `hour`, `day`, `day-hours`, `month` or `year`. Defaults to `day`.                                                                                                                                                           |
| `timezone`                                                            | No       | `string`  | IANA [Time Zone](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) (e.g. America/Phoenix). Defaults to the requester's timezone. When the requester's timezone isn't present, then `filters.from` is parsed to get the timezone. |
| `filters`                                                             | No       | `object`  | If none provided, your report will span the last seven days.                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `filters.from`                                                        | No       | `string`  | Date & time format compatible with RFC3339 with optional resolution of microseconds, `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.ssssssZHH:MM`.                                                                                                                    |
| `filters.to`                                                          | No       | `string`  | Date & time format compatible with RFC3339 with optional resolution of microseconds, `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.ssssssZHH:MM`.                                                                                                                    |
| `filters.properties.<namespace>.<name>.<filter_type>`<sup>**1**</sup> | No       | `any`     | Described below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `filters.agents.<string_filter_type>`<sup>**2**</sup>                 | No       | `any`     | Described below; `exists` set to `false` will return unassigned chats; `true` will return the assigned ones.                                                                                                                                |
| `filters.tags.<string_filter_type>`<sup>**2**</sup>                   | No       | `any`     | Described below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `filters.sales.<integer_filter_type>`<sup>**3**</sup>                 | No       | `any`     | Described below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `filters.goals.<integer_filter_type>`<sup>**3**</sup>                 | No       | `any`     | Described below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `filters.surveys.<survey>`<sup>**4**</sup>                            | No       | `array`   | Described below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `filters.event_types.<event_type_filter_type>`<sup>**5**</sup>        | No       | `any`     | Described below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `filters.groups.values`                                               | No       | `array`   | Array of group IDs.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

</Text>
<Code>
</Code>
</Section>

**1)** `<filter_type>` can take the following values:

- `exists` (`bool`)
- `values` (`type[]` - an array with a specific type for property: `string`, `int` or `bool`)
- `exclude_values` (`type[]` - an array with a specific type for property: `string`, `int` or `bool`)

There's only one value allowed for a single property.

List of default properties can be found [**here**](/messaging/references/default-properties/#reference).

**2)** `<string_filter_type>` can take the following values:

- `exists` (`bool`)
- `values` (`string[]` - an array of strings)
- `exclude_values` (`string[]` - an array of strings)
- `require_every_value` (`bool`) - if set to `true`, will return only those chats that have all elements passed in `values` or `exclude_values`

You can pass only one of the following values at a time: `exists`, `values` or `exclude_values`.

**3)** `<integer_filter_type>` can take the following values:

- `exists` (`bool`)
- `values` (`int[]` - an array of integers)
- `exclude_values` (`int[]` - an array of integers)
- `require_every_value` (`bool`) - if set to `true`, will return only those chats that have all elements passed in `values` or `exclude_values`

You can pass only one of the following values at a time: `exists`, `values` or `exclude_values`.

**4)** `<survey>` contains the following fields:

- `type` (`string`) - allowed values: `pre_chat`, `post_chat`
- `answer_id` (`string`)

**5)** `<event_type_filter_type>` can take the following values:

- `values` (`string[]` - an array of [Event](/messaging/agent-chat-api/v3.4/#events) types, duplicates are ignored)
- `exclude_values` (`string[]` - an array of [Event](/messaging/agent-chat-api/v3.4/#events) types, duplicates are ignored)
- `require_every_value` (`bool`) - if set to `true`, will return only those chats that have all elements passed in `values` or `exclude_values`

You can pass only one of the following values at a time: `exists`, `values` or `exclude_values`.

<CodeResponse version="v3.4" type="reports" title={'Sample filters'} json="filters" />

The JSON payload above translates into the following query string:

<CodeSample path={'FILTERS AS QUERY STRING PARAMS'}>

```shell
?filters.from=2021-03-01T23:59:59-00:00
&filters.to=2021-04-13T23:59:59-00:00
&filters.properties[routing][continuous].values=true
&filters.agents.values=joe@acme.com
&filters.agents.values=alice@acme.com
&filters.tags.exclude_values=spam
&filters.event_types.values=file
```

</CodeSample>

💡 Notice the square brackets `[]` when using GET query string params to define `properties.<namespace>` and `properties.<namespace>.<name>`.

## Chats

<Section>
<Text>

### Agents Chatting Duration

Shows the average chatting duration of agents within a license.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                                           |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/agents_chatting_duration` |
| **HTTP method**     | POST, GET                                                                 |
| **Required scopes** | `reports_read`                                                            |

#### Request

See [available parameters and filters](#available-parameters-and-filters).

#### Response

| Field                 | Notes                                                  |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `total`               | The total number of chats in the specified date range. |
| `records`             | Contains `distribution` objects, for example, `day`.   |
| `records.day.count`   | The total number of chats `agents` had that `day`.     |
| `records.day.seconds` | The average chat duration `agents` had that `day`.     |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl -X POST \
https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/agents_chatting_duration \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>' \
  -d '{
    "distribution": "day",
    "filters": {
      "from": "2021-04-08T00:00:00-00:00",
      "to": "2021-04-15T23:59:59-00:00"
    }
  }'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.4" json="agentsChattingDuration"/>

</Code>
</Section>

<Section>
<Text>

### Tags

Shows the distribution of tags for chats.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                       |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/tags` |
| **HTTP method**     | POST, GET                                             |
| **Required scopes** | `reports_read`                                        |

#### Request

See [available parameters and filters](#available-parameters-and-filters).

#### Response

| Field               | Notes                                                    |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `total`             | The total number of chats in the specified date range.   |
| `records`           | Contains the `distribution` objects, for example, `day`. |
| `records.day.<tag>` | The total number of chats tagged with `<tag>`.           |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl -X POST \
https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/tags \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>' \
  -d '{
    "distribution": "day",
    "filters": {
      "from": "2021-04-08T00:00:00-00:00",
      "to": "2021-04-15T23:59:59-00:00"
    }
  }'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.4" json="tags"/>

</Code>
</Section>

<Section>
<Text>

### Total Chats

Shows how many chats occurred during the specified period.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                              |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/total_chats` |
| **HTTP method**     | POST, GET                                                    |
| **Required scopes** | `reports_read`                                               |

#### Request

See [available parameters and filters](#available-parameters-and-filters).

#### Response

| Field                    | Notes                                                    |
| ------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `total`                  | The total number of chats in the specified date range.   |
| `records`                | Contains the `distribution` objects, for example, `day`. |
| `records.day.total`      | The total number of chats that `day`.                    |
| `records.day.continuous` | The number of continuous chats that `day`.               |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl -X POST \
https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/total_chats \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>' \
  -d '{
    "distribution": "day",
    "filters": {
      "from": "2021-04-08T00:00:00-00:00",
      "to": "2021-04-15T23:59:59-00:00"
    }
  }'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.4" json="totalChats"/>

</Code>
</Section>

<Section>
<Text>

### Ratings

Shows the number of rated chats along with their ratings during a specified period of time.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                              |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/ratings`     |
| **HTTP method**     | POST, GET                                                    |
| **Required scopes** | `reports_read`                                               |

#### Request

See [available parameters and filters](#available-parameters-and-filters).

#### Response

| Field                    | Notes                                                    |
| ------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `total`                  | The total number of chats in the specified date range.   |
| `records`                | Contains the `distribution` objects, for example, `day`. |
| `records.day.chats`      | The total number of chats that `day`.                    |
| `records.day.bad`        | The number of chats rated `bad` that `day`.              |
| `records.day.good`       | The number of chats rated `good` that `day`.             |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl -X POST \
https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/ratings \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>' \
  -d '{
    "distribution": "day",
    "filters": {
      "from": "2021-04-08T00:00:00-00:00",
      "to": "2021-04-15T23:59:59-00:00"
    }
  }'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.4" json="ratings"/>

</Code>
</Section>

<Section>
<Text>

### Ranking

Shows the ratio of good to bad ratings for each operator.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                              |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/ranking`     |
| **HTTP method**     | POST, GET                                                    |
| **Required scopes** | `reports_read`                                               |

#### Request

See [available parameters and filters](#available-parameters-and-filters). 💡 Notice that the distribution parameter will have no effect on the response of this method.

#### Response

| Field                    | Notes                                                                                                                  |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ranking`                | Contains the `agent` objects.                                                                                          |
| `ranking.agent.total`    | The total number of chats an agent had in the specified period.                                                        |
| `ranking.agent.good`     | The number of agent's chats rated `good`.                                                                              |
| `ranking.agent.bad`      | The number of agent's chats rated `bad`.                                                                               |
| `ranking.agent.score`    | The agent's score. [Read more about how we calculate agent rankings...](https://www.livechat.com/help/agent-rankings/) |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl -X POST \
https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.4/reports/chats/ranking \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>' \
  -d '{
    "filters": {
      "from": "2021-04-08T00:00:00-00:00",
      "to": "2021-04-15T23:59:59-00:00"
    }
  }'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.4" json="ranking"/>

</Code>
</Section>

# Contact us

If you found a bug or a typo, you can create an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/livechat/livechat-public-docs/). In case of any questions or feedback, don't hesitate to contact us at [developers@livechat.com](mailto:developers@livechat.com)
