src/pages/getting-started/livechat-apps/webhook-apps/index.mdx, before:

---
weight: 3
category: "getting-started"
subcategory: "livechat-apps"
title: "Building webhook apps"
tagline: "Follow guides to quickly build LiveChat apps"
desc: "Learn how to build your own integration using LiveChat webhooks."
---

# Introduction

This tutorial will help you build a LiveChat webhook integration. Follow the steps below if you're developing an integration that reacts to internal LiveChat events, such as a new incoming chat or a queued visitor.

## Use cases

A typical use case for a webhook integration is connecting LiveChat to an external CRM, marketing automation tools, or data analytics platforms. For instance, if you're integrating LiveChat with a marketing automation tool, you can add a new contact there every time a LiveChat visitor starts a chat.

## Important notes

Before you start, you'll need to have a basic knowledge about [webhooks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Webhook) and the LiveChat [authorization protocol](/getting-started/authorization/), OAuth2.1.

This tutorial will not answer questions on building integrations that pull data on demand (as opposed to pulling data in reaction to some LiveChat events). If you want to pull LiveChat reports on request, you should be using [Data & Reporting APIs](/data-reporting/).

## What are webhooks?

LiveChat can send notifications when some specific actions are performed. Such a notification is called a **webhook** – it’s a simple HTTP request that LiveChat sends to your server when a particular event occurs. Please see the following documents for reference on how to manage webhooks:

- How to [set up](/management/configuration-api/#register-webhook) webhooks
- A list of available webhooks along with their [format samples](/management/configuration-api/#webhooks)

<Warning>

When your server receives a webhook from LiveChat, it should respond with **HTTP 200** response. Otherwise, LiveChat will retry sending the webhook to your service a number of times until it receives the correct **HTTP 200** response.

The timeout is set to ~10 seconds. If we don't receive **HTTP 200** response within that time period,  we'll retry sending the webhook up to 10 times within 6 hours.

</Warning>

If your endpoint is responsible for both receiving data from our webhook and making further actions, like creating a record in your database, then the whole process may take longer than 10 seconds.
In such a case, we believe the best solution would be to split your mechanism into two separate actions:

1) Retrieving data from the LiveChat webhook (sending **HTTP 200** back to us immediately).

2) Further processing of the data and passing it to other services.

That would prevent situations in which the process takes longer than our webhook timeout and data isn't pushed from our side again.

Note: LiveChat webhooks are sent with `Content-Type: application/json` header, so please make sure that your service can handle such requests.

# Basic tutorial

## 1. Sign in to Developer Console

To build an integration, you'll need an account in the LiveChat Developer Console. [Sign up here](https://developers.livechat.com/console/) and get access to all Platform Developer Tools.

## 2. Create a new app

Once you register an account, create a new application in the Developer Console using the `Create new app` button.

<img alt="LiveChat Developer Console" src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/webhook-apps/images/livechat-developers-console-create-app.png" width="800px" height="500px"/>

## 3. Add the Agent App Widgets block

Go to the Building Blocks section and create a new Agent App Widget with `App Settings` as the placement. This widget will be displayed as a settings page for your app.

<img alt="Create new Settings widget" src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/webhook-apps/images/livechat-developers-console-create-widget.png" width="800px" height="500px"/>

## 4. Add the App Authorization block

Go back to the Building Blocks section and add the `Server-side app` option. Save the highlighted `Client Id` and `Client Secret` &ndash; you'll need them both to complete the authorization later.

<img alt="Create new server-side Authorization block" src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/webhook-apps/images/livechat-developers-console-create-auth.png" width="800px" height="500px"/>

## 5. Create a settings page (optional)

Settings page is a place where you can:

- Prompt users to connect their accounts with your OAuth2.1 provider.
- Display configuration options.
- Inform users about additional installation steps, if there are any.

If you need to access LiveChat user data, we recommend using the [Sign in with LiveChat flow](/getting-started/authorization/sign-in-with-livechat/) on your settings page. For more information on possible widget placements, visit the [app locations](/extending-agent-app/#app-locations) document.

### Sample settings page scenario

If you're building an integration that binds LiveChat data with an external service, you should create a settings page that:

1. Makes use of the [Sign in with LiveChat flow](/getting-started/authorization/sign-in-with-livechat/).
2. Imports your sign in form or other authorization flow, e.g. server-side [authorization code grant flow](https://developers.livechat.com/docs/authorization/authorizing-api-calls/#authorization-code-grant) for backend apps.
3. Binds both pieces of information and stores new users in your database.
4. Displays a confirmation screen when the integration is up and running.

The settings page will appear right after a LiveChat user installs your app from the Marketplace.

## 6. Register the webhooks

Once you have the LiveChat credentials, you can register your webhooks with the Configuration API. Currently, there are two APIs you can use to manage webhooks:

- [Configuration API v3](/management/configuration-api/#webhooks)
  
  💡 Read the tutorial on  <a href="https://developers.livechat.com/updates/setting-up-webhooks-with-livechat-api" target="_blank">how to register LiveChat webhooks v3.</a>

- [Configuration API v2](/management/configuration-api/v2.0/#create-a-new-webhook) (deprecated)

### Setting up webhooks v2 for development

One of the possible development options is to set up your webhooks from within the LiveChat Agent App. However, please note that this configuration uses [Configuration API v2 webhooks](/management/configuration-api/v2.0/#create-a-new-webhook), which are now deprecated. We highly recommend using the [Configuration API v3 webhooks](/management/configuration-api/#webhooks).

To set up webhooks from within the LiveChat Agent App, go to **Settings > Integrations > [Webhooks](https://my.livechatinc.com/settings/webhooks)** and set up your webhook URLs.

<img alt="LiveChat Webhooks" src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/webhook-apps/images/livechat-platform-webhooks-settings.png" width="800px" height="357px"/>

Each webhook consists of the following properties:

- **Event** – determines when the webhook is sent to your web server.
- **Data type** – allows you to select which information will be included in the webhook.
- **Target URL** – the address of your web server the webhook will be sent to.

# Webhooks v2 reference (deprecated)

<Warning>

**Note: This reference is deprecated**. Versions 3.x of Platform APIs introduce new webhook interfaces. We highly recommend migrating out of the deprecated system. The new webhooks service has much more functionality and provides you with a higher control over the data. Please note that the new Platform APIs also provide a **RTM (websocket) transport**.

</Warning>

## HTTP Basic Auth example

For security reasons it's recommended to use HTTP basic authentication. Credentials should be passed in this format: `https://user:password@www.my-website.com`. We recommend using https:// in webhook URL.

<CodeSample path={'.htaccess'}>

```shell
AuthType Basic
AuthName "My Protected Area"
AuthUserFile /path/to/.htpasswd
Require valid-user
```

</CodeSample>

<CodeSample path={'.htpasswd'}>

```
livechat:$apr1$G9iXatUK$gPJLrKQsoWWkFCY/SXO/H.
```

</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse title={"Example webhook URL"}>

```
https://livechat:password@www.my-website.com
```

</CodeResponse>

## Webhook format

Each webhook is a HTTP POST request made to the URL that you provide in the web app. The request's POST body contains webhook information in JSON format.

<CodeResponse title={"Sample webhook payload"}>

```json
{
  "event_type": "chat_started",
  "token": "27f41c8da685c81a890f9e5f8ce48387",
  "license_id": "1025707"
}
```

</CodeResponse>

Each webhook contains the following properties:

- `event_type` – tells you the event that triggered the webhook. Possible values: `chat_started`, `chat_ended`, `visitor_queued`.
- `token` and `license_id` – your authentication credentials that let you call LiveChat Configuration API v2 methods. You won’t need to use them unless you want to make a call to the LiveChat API right when you receive a webhook. In that case, you just need to pass the `token` and `license_id` credentials in your API call.
- additional information – please read the [Webhook data types](#webhook-data-types) section.

## Webhook data types

<CodeResponse title={"Example webhook payload"}>

```json
{
  "event_type": "chat_started",
  "token": "27f41c8da685c81a890f9e5f8ce48387",
  "license_id": "1025707",
  "visitor": {
    "id": "S1354547427.0c151b0e1b",
    "name": "John",
    "email": "john.smith@gmail.com"
  }
}
```

</CodeResponse>

In some cases, you may want to get some additional information when a particular event occurs.

For example, when the chat starts, you may want to know the exact chat start time along with the visitor's name and email provided in the pre-chat survey. To get this information, you can add additional **data types** that will be sent to your web server along with each webhook.

| Event type                | Supported data types                 |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `visitor_queued`          | `visitor`                            |
| `chat_started`            | `chat`, `visitor`, `pre_chat_survey` |
| `chat_ended`              | `chat`, `visitor`, `pre_chat_survey` |
| `chat_changed`            | `chat`, `visitor`                    |
| `ticket_created`          | `ticket`                             |
| `canned_response_changed` | `canned_response`                    |

Note: `chat_changed` event type is sent only when the tag list for a particular chat was changed, no matter if the chat is currently active or not.

### `chat`

```json
{
  "chat": {
    "id": "MH022RD0K5",
    "started_timestamp": 1358937653,
    "ended_timestamp": 1358939109,
    "messages": [
      {
        "user_type": "agent",
        "author_name": "John Doe",
        "agent_id": "john.doe@mycompany.com",
        "text": "Hello",
        "timestamp": 1358937653
      },
      {
        "user_type": "supervisor",
        "author_name": "James Doe",
        "agent_id": "james@mycompany.com",
        "text": "This is whispered message.",
        "timestamp": 1358937658
      },
      {
        "user_type": "visitor",
        "author_name": "Mary Brown",
        "text": "How are you?",
        "timestamp": 1358937661
      }
    ],
    "tags": ["sales", "support", "feedback"]
  }
}
```

Include this data type if you need to know chat start and end time or the full chat transcript.

### `visitor`

```json
"visitor": {
	"id": "S126126161.O136OJPO1",
	"name": "Mary Brown",
	"email": "mary.brown@email.com",
	"custom_variables": [
		{
			"key": "Customer ID",
			"value": "POQ51023XZA"
		}
	]
}
```

This data type includes visitor’s name and e-mail address.

### `pre_chat_survey`

```json
"pre_chat_survey": [
{
  "id": "135963440121804757",
  "type": "name",
  "label": "Your name",
  "answer": "Mary Brown"
},
{
  "id": "135963440121802531",
  "type": "email",
  "label": "Your e-mail",
  "answer": "mary.brown@email.com"
},
{
  "id": "135963613764705707",
  "type": "checkbox",
  "label": "What are your favourite music bands?",
  "answers": [{
    "label": "Deep Purple",
    "chosen": true
  },
  {
    "label": "Iron Maiden",
    "chosen": false
  },
  {
    "label": "Guns N' Roses",
    "chosen": true
  }]
}
]
```

Include this data type if you need to know the exact results of the pre-chat survey that was filled in by the visitor.

<aside class="notice">
  When the pre-chat survey is omitted (for example, when chat is started after
  an automated greeting), the <code>pre_chat_survey</code> will contain an empty
  array. You don't need to write additional code to handle these cases.
</aside>

### `ticket`

```json
"ticket":{
  "assignee":{
    "id":"agent.gregory@email.com",
    "name":"Gregory"
  },
  "events":[
    {
      "author":{
        "id":"mary.brown@email.com",
        "name":"agent4",
        "type":"agent"
      },
      "date":"2014-08-18T10:05:05Z",
      "is_private":false,
      "message":"How are you?",
      "source":{
        "type":"agent-app-manual",
        "url":null
      },
      "type":"message"
    }
  ],
  "groups":[
    {
      "id":0,
      "name":"All operators"
    }
  ],
  "id":"CCWWM",
  "requester":{
    "mail":"mary.brown@email.com",
    "name":"Mary Brown"
  },
  "status":"open",
  "subject":"Welcome",
  "tags":['support'],
  "source":{
    "type":"lc2",
    "url":null,
    "id":"NO4Y5FAERW"
  }
}
```

This data type includes the details of a ticket.

### `canned_response_changed`

```json
"canned_response":{
    "group": 0,
    "id": 1,
    "modification_date": 1494230856,
    "tags": [
        "shortcut1",
        "shortcut2"
    ],
    "text": "Can I help you with anything else?"
}
```

This data type includes canned response details.

Commit message:

Mention Chat webhooks block in Building webhook apps guide

src/pages/getting-started/livechat-apps/webhook-apps/index.mdx, after:

---
weight: 3
category: "getting-started"
subcategory: "livechat-apps"
title: "Building webhook apps"
tagline: "Follow guides to quickly build LiveChat apps"
desc: "Learn how to build your own integration using LiveChat webhooks."
---

# Introduction

This tutorial will help you build a LiveChat webhook integration. Follow the steps below if you're developing an integration that reacts to internal LiveChat events, such as a new incoming chat or a queued visitor.

## Use cases

A typical use case for a webhook integration is connecting LiveChat to an external CRM, marketing automation tools, or data analytics platforms. For instance, if you're integrating LiveChat with a marketing automation tool, you can add a new contact there every time a LiveChat visitor starts a chat.

## Important notes

Before you start, you'll need to have a basic knowledge about [webhooks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Webhook) and the LiveChat [authorization protocol](/getting-started/authorization/), OAuth2.1.

This tutorial will not answer questions on building integrations that pull data on demand (as opposed to pulling data in reaction to some LiveChat events). If you want to pull LiveChat reports on request, you should be using [Data & Reporting APIs](/data-reporting/).

## What are webhooks?

LiveChat can send notifications when some specific actions are performed. Such a notification is called a **webhook** – it’s a simple HTTP request that LiveChat sends to your server when a particular event occurs. Please see the following documents for reference on how to manage webhooks:

- How to [set up](/management/configuration-api/#register-webhook) webhooks
- A list of available webhooks along with their [format samples](/management/configuration-api/#webhooks)

<Warning>

When your server receives a webhook from LiveChat, it should respond with **HTTP 200** response. Otherwise, LiveChat will retry sending the webhook to your service a number of times until it receives the correct **HTTP 200** response.

The timeout is set to ~10 seconds. If we don't receive **HTTP 200** response within that time period,  we'll retry sending the webhook up to 10 times within 6 hours.

</Warning>

If your endpoint is responsible for both receiving data from our webhook and making further actions, like creating a record in your database, then the whole process may take longer than 10 seconds.
In such a case, we believe the best solution would be to split your mechanism into two separate actions:

1) Retrieving data from the LiveChat webhook (sending **HTTP 200** back to us immediately).

2) Further processing of the data and passing it to other services.

That would prevent situations in which the process takes longer than our webhook timeout and data isn't pushed from our side again.

Note: LiveChat webhooks are sent with `Content-Type: application/json` header, so please make sure that your service can handle such requests.

# Basic tutorial

## 1. Sign in to Developer Console

To build an integration, you'll need an account in the LiveChat Developer Console. [Sign up here](https://developers.livechat.com/console/) and get access to all Platform Developer Tools.

## 2. Create a new app

Once you register an account, create a new application in the Developer Console using the `Create new app` button.

<img alt="LiveChat Developer Console" src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/webhook-apps/images/livechat-developers-console-create-app.png" width="800px" height="500px"/>

## 3. Add the Agent App Widgets block

Go to the Building Blocks section and create a new Agent App Widget with `App Settings` as the placement. This widget will be displayed as a settings page for your app.

<img alt="Create new Settings widget" src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/webhook-apps/images/livechat-developers-console-create-widget.png" width="800px" height="500px"/>

## 4. Add the App Authorization block

Go back to the Building Blocks section and add the `Server-side app` option. Save the highlighted `Client Id` and `Client Secret` &ndash; you'll need them both to complete the authorization later.

<img alt="Create new server-side Authorization block" src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/webhook-apps/images/livechat-developers-console-create-auth.png" width="800px" height="500px"/>

## 5. Create a settings page (optional)

Settings page is a place where you can:

- Prompt users to connect their accounts with your OAuth2.1 provider.
- Display configuration options.
- Inform users about additional installation steps, if there are any.

If you need to access LiveChat user data, we recommend using the [Sign in with LiveChat flow](/getting-started/authorization/sign-in-with-livechat/) on your settings page. For more information on possible widget placements, visit the [app locations](/extending-agent-app/#app-locations) document.

### Sample settings page scenario

If you're building an integration that binds LiveChat data with an external service, you should create a settings page that:

1. Makes use of the [Sign in with LiveChat flow](/getting-started/authorization/sign-in-with-livechat/).
2. Imports your sign in form or other authorization flow, e.g. server-side [authorization code grant flow](https://developers.livechat.com/docs/authorization/authorizing-api-calls/#authorization-code-grant) for backend apps.
3. Binds both pieces of information and stores new users in your database.
4. Displays a confirmation screen when the integration is up and running.

The settings page will appear right after a LiveChat user installs your app from the Marketplace.

## 6. Register the webhooks

Once you have the LiveChat credentials, you can register your webhooks.

### Setting up webhooks v3 for development

If you're using the Configuration API v3.x, you can register your webhooks either **via the Configuration API** or **in the Developer Console**.

#### Via Configuration API

One of the options is to call the LiveChat Configuration API directly. We recommend you use [the current stable version of the Configuration API](/management/configuration-api/#webhooks). If you choose this option instead of using the Console's interface, remember you need to both [register]((management/configuration-api#register-webhook)) and [enable](management/configuration-api#enable-license-webhooks) webhooks.

💡 Not familiar with webhook registration and enablement? Version 3.3 of the Configuration API introduced significant changes to the way LiveChat webhooks work. To learn the details, <a href="https://developers.livechat.com/updates/setting-up-webhooks-with-livechat-api" target="_blank">read this article.</a>

#### In Developer Console

If you're using v3.3, you can register your webhooks in the **Chat webhooks** building block. Setting up webhooks via the Console's interface automates the process of webhook [registration](management/configuration-api#register-webhook) and [enablement](management/configuration-api#enable-license-webhooks).

<SectionLink to={"/getting-started/app-guides/chat-webhooks/"}>Learn how to set up webhooks in Developer Console</SectionLink>

### Setting up webhooks v2 for development

Another possible development option is to set up your webhooks from within the LiveChat Agent App. However, please note that this configuration uses [Configuration API v2 webhooks](/management/configuration-api/v2.0/#create-a-new-webhook), which are now deprecated. We highly recommend using the [Configuration API v3 webhooks](/management/configuration-api/#webhooks).

To set up webhooks from within the LiveChat Agent App, go to **Settings > Integrations > [Webhooks](https://my.livechatinc.com/settings/webhooks)** and set up your webhook URLs.

<img alt="LiveChat Webhooks" src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/webhook-apps/images/livechat-platform-webhooks-settings.png" width="800px" height="357px"/>

Each webhook consists of the following properties:

- **Event** – determines when the webhook is sent to your web server.
- **Data type** – allows you to select which information will be included in the webhook.
- **Target URL** – the address of your web server the webhook will be sent to.

# Webhooks v2 reference (deprecated)

<Warning>

**Note: This reference is deprecated**. Versions 3.x of Platform APIs introduce new webhook interfaces. We highly recommend migrating out of the deprecated system. The new webhooks service has much more functionality and provides you with a higher control over the data. Please note that the new Platform APIs also provide a **RTM (websocket) transport**.

</Warning>

## HTTP Basic Auth example

For security reasons it's recommended to use HTTP basic authentication. Credentials should be passed in this format: `https://user:password@www.my-website.com`. We recommend using https:// in webhook URL.

<CodeSample path={'.htaccess'}>

```shell
AuthType Basic
AuthName "My Protected Area"
AuthUserFile /path/to/.htpasswd
Require valid-user
```

</CodeSample>

<CodeSample path={'.htpasswd'}>

```
livechat:$apr1$G9iXatUK$gPJLrKQsoWWkFCY/SXO/H.
```

</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse title={"Example webhook URL"}>

```
https://livechat:password@www.my-website.com
```

</CodeResponse>

## Webhook format

Each webhook is a HTTP POST request made to the URL that you provide in the web app. The request's POST body contains webhook information in JSON format.

<CodeResponse title={"Sample webhook payload"}>

```json
{
  "event_type": "chat_started",
  "token": "27f41c8da685c81a890f9e5f8ce48387",
  "license_id": "1025707"
}
```

</CodeResponse>

Each webhook contains the following properties:

- `event_type` – tells you the event that triggered the webhook. Possible values: `chat_started`, `chat_ended`, `visitor_queued`.
- `token` and `license_id` – your authentication credentials that let you call LiveChat Configuration API v2 methods. You won’t need to use them unless you want to make a call to the LiveChat API right when you receive a webhook. In that case, you just need to pass the `token` and `license_id` credentials in your API call.
- additional information – please read the [Webhook data types](#webhook-data-types) section.

## Webhook data types

<CodeResponse title={"Example webhook payload"}>

```json
{
  "event_type": "chat_started",
  "token": "27f41c8da685c81a890f9e5f8ce48387",
  "license_id": "1025707",
  "visitor": {
    "id": "S1354547427.0c151b0e1b",
    "name": "John",
    "email": "john.smith@gmail.com"
  }
}
```

</CodeResponse>

In some cases, you may want to get some additional information when a particular event occurs.

For example, when the chat starts, you may want to know the exact chat start time along with the visitor's name and email provided in the pre-chat survey. To get this information, you can add additional **data types** that will be sent to your web server along with each webhook.

| Event type                | Supported data types                 |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `visitor_queued`          | `visitor`                            |
| `chat_started`            | `chat`, `visitor`, `pre_chat_survey` |
| `chat_ended`              | `chat`, `visitor`, `pre_chat_survey` |
| `chat_changed`            | `chat`, `visitor`                    |
| `ticket_created`          | `ticket`                             |
| `canned_response_changed` | `canned_response`                    |

Note: `chat_changed` event type is sent only when the tag list for a particular chat was changed, no matter if the chat is currently active or not.

### `chat`

```json
{
  "chat": {
    "id": "MH022RD0K5",
    "started_timestamp": 1358937653,
    "ended_timestamp": 1358939109,
    "messages": [
      {
        "user_type": "agent",
        "author_name": "John Doe",
        "agent_id": "john.doe@mycompany.com",
        "text": "Hello",
        "timestamp": 1358937653
      },
      {
        "user_type": "supervisor",
        "author_name": "James Doe",
        "agent_id": "james@mycompany.com",
        "text": "This is whispered message.",
        "timestamp": 1358937658
      },
      {
        "user_type": "visitor",
        "author_name": "Mary Brown",
        "text": "How are you?",
        "timestamp": 1358937661
      }
    ],
    "tags": ["sales", "support", "feedback"]
  }
}
```

Include this data type if you need to know chat start and end time or the full chat transcript.

### `visitor`

```json
"visitor": {
	"id": "S126126161.O136OJPO1",
	"name": "Mary Brown",
	"email": "mary.brown@email.com",
	"custom_variables": [
		{
			"key": "Customer ID",
			"value": "POQ51023XZA"
		}
	]
}
```

This data type includes visitor’s name and e-mail address.

### `pre_chat_survey`

```json
"pre_chat_survey": [
{
  "id": "135963440121804757",
  "type": "name",
  "label": "Your name",
  "answer": "Mary Brown"
},
{
  "id": "135963440121802531",
  "type": "email",
  "label": "Your e-mail",
  "answer": "mary.brown@email.com"
},
{
  "id": "135963613764705707",
  "type": "checkbox",
  "label": "What are your favourite music bands?",
  "answers": [{
    "label": "Deep Purple",
    "chosen": true
  },
  {
    "label": "Iron Maiden",
    "chosen": false
  },
  {
    "label": "Guns N' Roses",
    "chosen": true
  }]
}
]
```

Include this data type if you need to know the exact results of the pre-chat survey that was filled in by the visitor.

<aside class="notice">
  When the pre-chat survey is omitted (for example, when chat is started after
  an automated greeting), the <code>pre_chat_survey</code> will contain an empty
  array. You don't need to write additional code to handle these cases.
</aside>

### `ticket`

```json
"ticket":{
  "assignee":{
    "id":"agent.gregory@email.com",
    "name":"Gregory"
  },
  "events":[
    {
      "author":{
        "id":"mary.brown@email.com",
        "name":"agent4",
        "type":"agent"
      },
      "date":"2014-08-18T10:05:05Z",
      "is_private":false,
      "message":"How are you?",
      "source":{
        "type":"agent-app-manual",
        "url":null
      },
      "type":"message"
    }
  ],
  "groups":[
    {
      "id":0,
      "name":"All operators"
    }
  ],
  "id":"CCWWM",
  "requester":{
    "mail":"mary.brown@email.com",
    "name":"Mary Brown"
  },
  "status":"open",
  "subject":"Welcome",
  "tags":['support'],
  "source":{
    "type":"lc2",
    "url":null,
    "id":"NO4Y5FAERW"
  }
}
```

This data type includes the details of a ticket.

### `canned_response_changed`

```json
"canned_response":{
    "group": 0,
    "id": 1,
    "modification_date": 1494230856,
    "tags": [
        "shortcut1",
        "shortcut2"
    ],
    "text": "Can I help you with anything else?"
}
```

This data type includes canned response details.
