content/messaging/index.mdx, before:

---
weight: 1
category: "messaging"
title: "Messaging Overview"
tagline: "An intro to Messaging APIs"
desc: "Using our APIs is much easier if you know the basics. Read about about key concepts - chat, thread, routing. Find out use cases for each API."
---

# Introduction

This document is dedicated to a set of **Messaging APIs**, which consists of the **Agent Chat API**, **Customer Chat API**, and the **Configuration API**. It also explains some key concepts, such as the definition of a **chat** and a **thread**, **the flow between services**, or **chat routing**. Understanding them is a prerequisite to the efficient usage of our APIs.

This document is a great starting point if you plan on using our APIs. You'll learn what use cases can be covered with each API. For hands-on examples, we encourage you to check the documentation specific to each API.

# Key concepts

## Chats and threads

By looking at the chat structure, you notice that each **chat** is is divided into **threads**. Every thread contains **events**, for example sent messages. You can think of a **chat** as _**a whole conversation**_, while **threads** are separate _**conversation topics**_.

![Chats and Threads](images/chat_threads.png "chats and threads")

Consider the example of an online store. A customer starts a chat to ask about the shoes he bought. If he hasn't got any previous chat history, **a new chat is started**. Within this chat, **a new thread is created** (conversation topic). The messages he exchanges with the customer service assistant are received by the thread as **events**. After solving the problem, the customer says goodbye and closes the chat, which automatically **closes the thread**. Let's say the customer is rude and leaves without saying goodbye. In this case, the thread closes after 30 minutes of inactivity (time periods are configurable). The chat **doesn't end**, though.

The next day, customer returns to ask about his other purchase. A new thread starts in the context of the chat, which has been **continuously open**. Each time customer returns and starts a new conversation topic, he needs to click **_start a chat_**. If we stuck to our naming convention, that would have to be **_start a thread_**, because this is what he actually does behind the scenes.

A **message** or **rich message** are not the only event types, though. There are also special events for specific actions, like: **file**, **filled form**, **system** and **custom** messages.

### Rules and conditions

Here are some general rules, which summarize the previous section and add new info.

1. When a new chat is started, **a new active thread** is created within this chat. New threads within a single chat are created on the server side.

2. There's always **only one active thread**. Only the **last thread** can be the **active** one. Events are always added to the active thread.

3. There can be time gaps between threads in a chat, but once a chat is started, it's **continuously open**.

4. Messages are sent and delivered even when the recipient (both Customer and Agent) is **offline**.

5. **Multiple Agents** can participate in a single chat.

6. Every user can have **multiple concurrent chats**. Read how it applies to [Agents](#chatting-as-agent) and [Customers](#chatting-as-customer).

7. The algorithm that decides how chats are distributed between Agents is called **routing**. It's documented in the [Routing](#chat-routing) section.

### The flow

To better understand the flow between services, watch a short video.

<video width="750" height="500" style="height: auto;" controls>
  <source type="video/mp4" src="images/livechat-messaging-api-flow.mp4" />
</video>

## Chat routing

Routing is the process of **assigning chats to agents**. The primary goal of the routing mechanism is to distribute chats to all available agents who use the same license.

Chats are being assigned to agents **either automatically or manually**. Our default routing mechanisms are described in [Understanding chat routing](https://www.livechatinc.com/help/understanding-chat-routing/).

### Router system messages

While the chat changes its state, the router sends system messages. Read more about **system messages** in [Agent Chat API](./agent-chat-api/#system-message) and [Customer Chat API](./customer-chat-api/#system-message).

# APIs Overview

There are two primary Chat APIs:

- **Agent Chat API**, which serves to join a chat as Agent.
- **Customer Chat API**, which serves to join a chat as Customer.

The separation of Chat APIs helps you decide which set of methods you should use. It depends on the role of the chat user. Want to join a chat as Agent? Refer to the Agent Chat API. Want to send messages as Customer? Use the Customer Chat API.

To use both APIs, you need to be _authorized_. This topic is thoroughly explained in the [**Authorizing API calls**](../getting-started/authorization) document.

## RTM API vs. Web API

Agent Chat API and Customer Chat API can be used either as **Real-Time Messaging APIs (RTM APIs)** or **Web APIs**.

To learn about differences between these two API types, see the comparison below:

|          **Characteristics**          |                                                                         **RTM API**                                                                         |                                                           **Web API**                                                           |
| :-----------------------------------: | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
|          **connection type**          |                                                                   stateful e.g. websocket                                                                   |                                                   stateless, via XHR requests                                                   |
| **finds out about state changes via** |                                                      [pushes](./agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#pushes)                                                       |                                             [webhooks](./agent-chat-api/#webhooks)                                              |
|              **used by**              |                                                                   Agent App, Chat Widget                                                                    |                                                   external apps, integrations                                                   |
|           **documentation**           | [Agent Chat RTM API](./agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#when-to-use-rtm-api) & [Customer Chat RTM API](./customer-chat-api/rtm-reference/#when-to-use-rtm-api) | [Agent Chat Web API](./agent-chat-api/#when-to-use-web-api) & [Customer Chat Web API](./customer-chat-api/#when-to-use-web-api) |

If you're not sure, which implementation to choose, we suggest reading about particular APIs. You'll find the **When to use RTM/Web API** section in each document - refer to the table above for links.

## API Versioning

The LiveChat Messaging API adopts the following versioning convention:

- **stable**
  
  The latest stable version we encourage developers to use. We don't introduce any new functionalities or breaking changes - only bug fixes are expected.

- **developer preview (dev preview)**
  
  The unstable version giving you a preview of new features. You **should never use it for your production apps** as it's subject to breaking change. Recommended for experimental use.

- **legacy**
  
  The old version we still support but highly encourage you to switch to the latest stable version.

**Currently:**

|                 | Agent Chat API | Customer Chat API | Configuration API |
| --------------- | -------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- |
| **stable**      | 3.1            | 3.1               | 3.1               |
| **dev preview** | 3.2            | 3.2               | 3.2               |
| **legacy**      | doesn't exist  | doesn't exist     | 2.0               |

# Agent Chat API

## Use cases

The **Agent Chat API** allows for:

- interactions with the chat as Agent (joining a chat, posting messages)
- interact with the chat by Bot Agents (acting as Agents)
- building a custom Agent App
- browsing chat archives
- banning Customers
- and much more

If you plan on using the **Agent Chat API** as **RTM API**, refer to [Agent Chat RTM API](./agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/). For the **Web API** usage, read the [Agent Chat Web API](./agent-chat-api/) document.

## Chatting as Agent

The number of chats an Agent can participate in is not limited. It can be configured in the Agent App by the license Owner or Admin.

# Customer Chat API

## Use cases

The **Customer Chat API** allows for:

- interacting with the chat as Customer (join a chat, post messages)
- building a custom Chat Widget
- implementing new conversation channels (Facebook Messenger or Twitter)

If you plan on using the **Customer Chat API** as **RTM API**, refer to [Customer Chat RTM API](./customer-chat-api/rtm-reference/). For the **Web API** usage, read the [Customer Chat Web API](./customer-chat-api/) document.

## Chatting as Customer

By default, a Customer can only have one chat started, unless he chats with Agents who use different licences. The licence Owner or Admin can change that default value, modifying the `routing.max_customer_chats_count` property. However, in order to support this functionality, you would need to build a custom Chat Widget. For now, the LiveChat Chat Widget doesn't support it. You can build a Chat Widget from the ground up using the [Chat Widget Customer SDK](../extending-ui/extending-chat-widget/customer-sdk/).

Chats are continuous so Customers can always preview their chats' history. Yet, with **multiple concurrent chats** Customers can sort their chats out thematically, making sure they know what each chat is about.

# Configuration API

## Use cases

The [**Configuration API**](/management/configuration-api/) allows for:

- storing license configurations
- creating chat, thread, and event [properties](/management/configuration-api/#properties)
- managing [webhooks](/management/configuration-api/#webhooks), for example registering and unregistering
- managing [Bot Agents](/management/configuration-api/#bot-agents), for example creating and removing

In the near future, it will allow for groups configuration. For now, refer to [**Configuration API v2**](/management/configuration-api/v2.0/#groups) to manage groups properties.

## Properties

Properties are **key-value storages**. They can be set within a chat, a thread, or an event. You can create properties within a license and configure them using the [Configuration API](/management/configuration-api/). It's possible to configure the property [type](../management/configuration-api/#property-types), [location](../management/configuration-api/#property-locations), and [domain](../management/configuration-api/#property-domain).

Refer to the [Configuration API](/management/configuration-api/) document to read more about the [property format](/management/configuration-api/#properties) and available [endpoints](/management/configuration-api/#methods-1).

## Webhooks

In general, actions invoked by the use of Messaging APIs result in events. You can be notified about those events with **webhooks**. LiveChat provides a number of webhooks, which you can register and manage via the [Configuration API](../management/configuration-api/#webhooks).
We distinguish **global webhooks** and **bot-specific webhooks**. Once **global webhooks** are set up, you will always receive them. **Bot-specific** webhooks are strongly coupled with the bot's status (`accepting chats`, `not accepting chats`, `offline`). If the bot is offline, webhooks won't be received.
Webhook equivalents in the websocket transport (RTM API) are **pushes**.

## Bot Agents

Bot Agents are similar to their human counterparts. They can join chats and post messages, but they also have a special feature: you can attach [webhooks](/management/configuration-api/#webhooks) to them.

Bot Agents are created and managed via the [Configuration API](/management/configuration-api/#bot-agent). As standard agents, Bot Agents can use Agent Chat API by the web API or websocket connection ([see the difference](#rtm-api-vs-web-api)).

Bot Agents are authorized with the use of the Agent's token. Using Bot Agents requires sending the `author_id` property.
They can listen for incoming webhooks (or [pushes](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#pushes)) and react to them.

# Contact us

If you still can't find the answer you're looking for, don't hesitate to contact us at <a href="mailto:developers@livechatinc.com">developers@livechatinc.com</a>! We're also open for you suggestions and feedback on the document itself.

Commit message:

Described basic flow between services

content/messaging/index.mdx, after:

---
weight: 1
category: "messaging"
title: "Messaging Overview"
tagline: "An intro to Messaging APIs"
desc: "Using our APIs is much easier if you know the basics. Read about about key concepts - chat, thread, routing. Find out use cases for each API."
---

# Introduction

This document is dedicated to a set of **Messaging APIs**, which consists of the **Agent Chat API**, **Customer Chat API**, and the **Configuration API**. It also explains some key concepts, such as the definition of a **chat** and a **thread**, **the flow between services**, or **chat routing**. Understanding them is a prerequisite to the efficient usage of our APIs.

This document is a great starting point if you plan on using our APIs. You'll learn what use cases can be covered with each API. For hands-on examples, we encourage you to check the documentation specific to each API.

# Key concepts

## Chats and threads

By looking at the chat structure, you notice that each **chat** is is divided into **threads**. Every thread contains **events**, for example sent messages. You can think of a **chat** as _**a whole conversation**_, while **threads** are separate _**conversation topics**_.

![Chats and Threads](images/chat_threads.png "chats and threads")

Consider the example of an online store. A customer starts a chat to ask about the shoes he bought. If he hasn't got any previous chat history, **a new chat is started**. Within this chat, **a new thread is created** (conversation topic). The messages he exchanges with the customer service assistant are received by the thread as **events**. After solving the problem, the customer says goodbye and closes the chat, which automatically **closes the thread**. Let's say the customer is rude and leaves without saying goodbye. In this case, the thread closes after 30 minutes of inactivity (time periods are configurable). The chat **doesn't end**, though.

The next day, customer returns to ask about his other purchase. A new thread starts in the context of the chat, which has been **continuously open**. Each time customer returns and starts a new conversation topic, he needs to click **_start a chat_**. If we stuck to our naming convention, that would have to be **_start a thread_**, because this is what he actually does behind the scenes.

A **message** or **rich message** are not the only event types, though. There are also special events for specific actions, like: **file**, **filled form**, **system** and **custom** messages.

### Rules and conditions

Here are some general rules, which summarize the previous section and add new info.

1. When a new chat is started, **a new active thread** is created within this chat. New threads within a single chat are created on the server side.

2. There's always **only one active thread**. Only the **last thread** can be the **active** one. Events are always added to the active thread.

3. There can be time gaps between threads in a chat, but once a chat is started, it's **continuously open**.

4. Messages are sent and delivered even when the recipient (both Customer and Agent) is **offline**.

5. **Multiple Agents** can participate in a single chat.

6. Every user can have **multiple concurrent chats**. Read how it applies to [Agents](#chatting-as-agent) and [Customers](#chatting-as-customer).

7. The algorithm that decides how chats are distributed between Agents is called **routing**. It's documented in the [Routing](#chat-routing) section.

### The flow

Watch a short video that illustrates the basic flow between services at LiveChat.

<video width="750" height="500" style="height: auto;" style="border-bottom: 20px solid white;" controls>
  <source type="video/mp4" src="images/livechat-messaging-api-flow.mp4" />
</video>

For more technical details, read the description below.

![Basic flow between services at LiveChat](images/basic-flow-between-services-livechat.png)

The LiveChat communication protocol uses *websockets*. They act like tubes that connect two parts and enable transport between them. In the basic model of the LiveChat services, there are two websocket connections:

- Agent App --- LiveChat's backend
- LiveChat's backend --- Chat Widget

The first connection allows for sending an event, for example a message, by an agent to the LiveChat's backend. The [`send_event`](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#send-event) action triggers the LiveChat's backend to generate a push. The [`incoming_event`](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#incoming_event) push is sent to the Chat Widget via the other websocket. The push contains the message written by the agent.

Apart from pushes, actions can trigger the LiveChat's backend to also generate webhooks. To receive a webhook, you need to [register it](/management/configuration-api/#register-webhook) first. That's how you let the LiveChat's backend know you want to be notified about certain actions.

## Chat routing

Routing is the process of **assigning chats to agents**. The primary goal of the routing mechanism is to distribute chats to all available agents who use the same license.

Chats are being assigned to agents **either automatically or manually**. Our default routing mechanisms are described in [Understanding chat routing](https://www.livechatinc.com/help/understanding-chat-routing/).

### Router system messages

While the chat changes its state, the router sends system messages. Read more about **system messages** in [Agent Chat API](./agent-chat-api/#system-message) and [Customer Chat API](./customer-chat-api/#system-message).

# APIs Overview

There are two primary Chat APIs:

- **Agent Chat API**, which serves to join a chat as Agent.
- **Customer Chat API**, which serves to join a chat as Customer.

The separation of Chat APIs helps you decide which set of methods you should use. It depends on the role of the chat user. Want to join a chat as Agent? Refer to the Agent Chat API. Want to send messages as Customer? Use the Customer Chat API.

To use both APIs, you need to be _authorized_. This topic is thoroughly explained in the [**Authorizing API calls**](../getting-started/authorization) document.

## RTM API vs. Web API

Agent Chat API and Customer Chat API can be used either as **Real-Time Messaging APIs (RTM APIs)** or **Web APIs**.

To learn about differences between these two API types, see the comparison below:

|          **Characteristics**          |                                                                         **RTM API**                                                                         |                                                           **Web API**                                                           |
| :-----------------------------------: | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
|          **connection type**          |                                                                   stateful e.g. websocket                                                                   |                                                   stateless, via XHR requests                                                   |
| **finds out about state changes via** |                                                      [pushes](./agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#pushes)                                                       |                                             [webhooks](./agent-chat-api/#webhooks)                                              |
|              **used by**              |                                                                   Agent App, Chat Widget                                                                    |                                                   external apps, integrations                                                   |
|           **documentation**           | [Agent Chat RTM API](./agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#when-to-use-rtm-api) & [Customer Chat RTM API](./customer-chat-api/rtm-reference/#when-to-use-rtm-api) | [Agent Chat Web API](./agent-chat-api/#when-to-use-web-api) & [Customer Chat Web API](./customer-chat-api/#when-to-use-web-api) |

If you're not sure, which implementation to choose, we suggest reading about particular APIs. You'll find the **When to use RTM/Web API** section in each document - refer to the table above for links.

## API Versioning

The LiveChat Messaging API adopts the following versioning convention:

- **stable**
  
  The latest stable version we encourage developers to use. We don't introduce any new functionalities or breaking changes - only bug fixes are expected.

- **developer preview (dev preview)**
  
  The unstable version giving you a preview of new features. You **should never use it for your production apps** as it's subject to breaking change. Recommended for experimental use.

- **legacy**
  
  The old version we still support but highly encourage you to switch to the latest stable version.

**Currently:**

|                 | Agent Chat API | Customer Chat API | Configuration API |
| --------------- | -------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- |
| **stable**      | 3.1            | 3.1               | 3.1               |
| **dev preview** | 3.2            | 3.2               | 3.2               |
| **legacy**      | doesn't exist  | doesn't exist     | 2.0               |

# Agent Chat API

## Use cases

The **Agent Chat API** allows for:

- interactions with the chat as Agent (joining a chat, posting messages)
- interact with the chat by Bot Agents (acting as Agents)
- building a custom Agent App
- browsing chat archives
- banning Customers
- and much more

If you plan on using the **Agent Chat API** as **RTM API**, refer to [Agent Chat RTM API](./agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/). For the **Web API** usage, read the [Agent Chat Web API](./agent-chat-api/) document.

## Chatting as Agent

The number of chats an Agent can participate in is not limited. It can be configured in the Agent App by the license Owner or Admin.

# Customer Chat API

## Use cases

The **Customer Chat API** allows for:

- interacting with the chat as Customer (join a chat, post messages)
- building a custom Chat Widget
- implementing new conversation channels (Facebook Messenger or Twitter)

If you plan on using the **Customer Chat API** as **RTM API**, refer to [Customer Chat RTM API](./customer-chat-api/rtm-reference/). For the **Web API** usage, read the [Customer Chat Web API](./customer-chat-api/) document.

## Chatting as Customer

By default, a Customer can only have one chat started, unless he chats with Agents who use different licences. The licence Owner or Admin can change that default value, modifying the `routing.max_customer_chats_count` property. However, in order to support this functionality, you would need to build a custom Chat Widget. For now, the LiveChat Chat Widget doesn't support it. You can build a Chat Widget from the ground up using the [Chat Widget Customer SDK](../extending-ui/extending-chat-widget/customer-sdk/).

Chats are continuous so Customers can always preview their chats' history. Yet, with **multiple concurrent chats** Customers can sort their chats out thematically, making sure they know what each chat is about.

# Configuration API

## Use cases

The [**Configuration API**](/management/configuration-api/) allows for:

- storing license configurations
- creating chat, thread, and event [properties](/management/configuration-api/#properties)
- managing [webhooks](/management/configuration-api/#webhooks), for example registering and unregistering
- managing [Bot Agents](/management/configuration-api/#bot-agents), for example creating and removing

In the near future, it will allow for groups configuration. For now, refer to [**Configuration API v2**](/management/configuration-api/v2.0/#groups) to manage groups properties.

## Properties

Properties are **key-value storages**. They can be set within a chat, a thread, or an event. You can create properties within a license and configure them using the [Configuration API](/management/configuration-api/). It's possible to configure the property [type](../management/configuration-api/#property-types), [location](../management/configuration-api/#property-locations), and [domain](../management/configuration-api/#property-domain).

Refer to the [Configuration API](/management/configuration-api/) document to read more about the [property format](/management/configuration-api/#properties) and available [endpoints](/management/configuration-api/#methods-1).

## Webhooks

In general, actions invoked by the use of Messaging APIs result in events. You can be notified about those events with **webhooks**. LiveChat provides a number of webhooks, which you can register and manage via the [Configuration API](../management/configuration-api/#webhooks).
We distinguish **global webhooks** and **bot-specific webhooks**. Once **global webhooks** are set up, you will always receive them. **Bot-specific** webhooks are strongly coupled with the bot's status (`accepting chats`, `not accepting chats`, `offline`). If the bot is offline, webhooks won't be received.
Webhook equivalents in the websocket transport (RTM API) are **pushes**.

## Bot Agents

Bot Agents are similar to their human counterparts. They can join chats and post messages, but they also have a special feature: you can attach [webhooks](/management/configuration-api/#webhooks) to them.

Bot Agents are created and managed via the [Configuration API](/management/configuration-api/#bot-agent). As standard agents, Bot Agents can use Agent Chat API by the web API or websocket connection ([see the difference](#rtm-api-vs-web-api)).

Bot Agents are authorized with the use of the Agent's token. Using Bot Agents requires sending the `author_id` property.
They can listen for incoming webhooks (or [pushes](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#pushes)) and react to them.

# Contact us

If you still can't find the answer you're looking for, don't hesitate to contact us at <a href="mailto:developers@livechatinc.com">developers@livechatinc.com</a>! We're also open for you suggestions and feedback on the document itself.
