content/monetization/index.mdx, before:

---
weight: 1
category: "monetization"
title: "Monetization Overview"
tagline: "Learn about the monetization tools provided by the LiveChat platform."
desc: "The LiveChat Platform provides you with a set of monetization tools. Learn about all of them and start monetizing your apps!"
---

# Introduction

LiveChat Platform provides you with variety of monetization tools. Depending on your use case, you can simply set a price for your app or build more advanced payment flows. All the payments are processed within LiveChat eco-system. You don't need any additional service or payment processor to start monetizing your apps.

## Paid Apps

You can create a paid app right within the [Developers Console](/console/). It's the simplest way to generate revenue from apps installed by LiveChat customers.

<SectionLink to={"/monetization/how-to-monetize-apps/"}>
  See guide on monetization
</SectionLink>

## In-app Payments

Collect money for purchases made inside your app. With in-app payments you have more granular control on monetizing features of your app.

<SectionLink to={"/monetization/billing-api/"}>
  See Billing API docs
</SectionLink>

## Commission Fee

The commission fee is 20% as a flat fee nevertheless, LiveChat, Inc. reserves its right to discount the fee in case of special circumstances concerning cooperation.

Commit message:

postman links, partner program api moved

content/monetization/index.mdx, after:

---
weight: 1
category: "monetization"
title: "Monetization Overview"
tagline: "Learn about the monetization tools provided by the LiveChat platform."
desc: "The LiveChat Platform provides you with a set of monetization tools. Learn about all of them and start monetizing your apps!"
---

# Introduction

LiveChat Platform provides you with a variety of monetization tools. Depending on your use case, you can simply set a price for your app or build more advanced payment flows. All the payments are processed within LiveChat eco-system. You don't need any additional service or payment processor to start monetizing your apps.

## Paid Apps

You can create a paid app right within the [Developers Console](/console/). It's the simplest way to generate revenue from apps installed by LiveChat customers.

<SectionLink to={"/monetization/how-to-monetize-apps/"}>
  See guide on monetization
</SectionLink>

## In-app Payments

Collect money for purchases made inside your app. With in-app payments you have more granular control on monetizing features of your app.

<SectionLink to={"/monetization/billing-api/"}>
  See Billing API docs
</SectionLink>

## Commission Fee

The commission fee is 20% as a flat fee nevertheless, LiveChat, Inc. reserves its right to discount the fee in case of special circumstances concerning cooperation.

## Partner Program API

LiveChat Partner Program API allows you to build your own tools that will help you make a better use of your data. Partner up with LiveChat, and grow your business with the leading customer service platform in the industry.

<SectionLink to={"/monetization/partner-program-api/"}>
  Partner Program API
</SectionLink>
