src/pages/data-reporting/reports-api/v3.2/index.mdx, before:

---
weight: 20
category: "data-reporting"
subcategory: "reports-api"
title: "Reports API"
tagline: "Access and extract data from Reports."
desc: "See how you can access and extract data from Reports with the use of Reports API."
versionGroup: "data-reporting"
apiVersion: "3.2"
---

# Introduction

Reports API allows you to **access** and **extract** all the [Reports](https://www.livechat.com/kb/reporting-options-available-in-livechat/) data available in LiveChat.

## Versioning

This document describes the **LiveChat Reports API v3.2**. This is the legacy version we don't recommend for production-ready applications. Instead, use [**LiveChat Reports API v3.3**](../).

## Authorization

To call the Reports API, you need to use a Bearer access token. [Learn how to get it.](/authorization/authorizing-api-calls/#implicit-grant)

## Postman Collection

Use the Postman Collection to try out the requests from the Reports API v3.2.

[<div style={{maxWidth: '123px'}}><img alt="Run in Postman" src="https://run.pstmn.io/button.svg" width="123px" height="30px"/></div>](https://app.getpostman.com/run-collection/81e0e2173c438dfce4f2#?env%5BLiveChat%20Web%20API%5D=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)

# Methods

| The API endpoint                                               |
| -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/reports/<resource>/<action>` |

| Header          | Value            | Required | Notes                                               |
| --------------- | ---------------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `Authorization` | `Bearer <token>` | Yes      | Your access token                                   |
| `X-API-Version` | `3.2`            | No       | You can specify the API version in the URL instead. |

## Available methods

|           |                                                                         |
| --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Chats** | [`agents_chatting_duration`](#agents-chatting-duration) [`tags`](#tags) |

## Chats

<Section>
<Text>

### Agents Chatting Duration

Shows the average chatting duration of agents within a license.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                                           |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/reports/chats/agents_chatting_duration` |
| **HTTP method**     | GET                                                                       |
| **Required scopes** | `reports_read`                                                            |

#### Request

| Query String          | Required | Notes                                                                                                   |
| --------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `to`                  | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format                                                                              |
| `from`                | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format                                                                              |
| `agents`              | no       | Agent emails separated by a comma; if not specified, returns the data for all agents within the license |
| `groups`              | no       | Group IDs separated by a comma                                                                          |
| `tags`                | no       | Names of tags separated by a comma                                                                      |
| `customer_client_ids` | no       | Client IDs separated by a comma                                                                         |
| `distribution`        | no       | Possible values: `hour`, `day-hours`, `day`, `month`; defaults to `day`                                 |
| `tagged`              | no       | Possible values: `true`, `1`, `false`, `0`                                                              |

#### Response

| Field                 | Notes                                                  |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `total`               | The total number of chats in the specified date range. |
| `records`             | Contains `distribution` objects, for example, `day`.   |
| `records.day.count`   | The total number of chats `agents` had that `day`.     |
| `records.day.seconds` | The average chat duration `agents` had that `day`.     |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl "https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/reports/chats/agents_chatting_duration?from=2020-09-01T00:00:00%2B02:00&to=2020-09-14T23:59:59%2B02:00" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.2" json="agentsChattingDuration"/>

</Code>
</Section>

<Section>
<Text>

### Tags

Shows the distribution of tags for chats.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                       |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/reports/chats/tags` |
| **HTTP method**     | GET                                                   |
| **Required scopes** | `reports_read`                                        |

#### Request

| Query String   | Required | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| -------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `to`           | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format                                                                                                                                                               |
| `from`         | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format                                                                                                                                                               |
| `distribution` | yes      | Possible values: `hour`, `day-hours`, `day`, `month`, `year`                                                                                                                             |
| `agents`       | no       | Agent emails separated by a comma; if not specified, returns the data for all agents within the license.                                                                                 |
| `groups`       | no       | Group IDs separated by a comma                                                                                                                                                           |
| `names`        | no       | The names of tags separated by a comma; when `tags=:without:`, you will get the total number of chats without tags, when `tags=:with:` you will get the total number of chats with tags. |

#### Response

| Field               | Notes                                                    |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `total`             | The total number of chats in the specified date range.   |
| `records`           | Contains the `distribution` objects, for example, `day`. |
| `records.day.<tag>` | The total number of chats tagged with `<tag>`.           |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl "https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/reports/chats/tags?from=2020-09-01T00:00:00%2B02:00&to=2020-09-14T23:59:59%2B02:00&distribution=day" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.2" json="tags"/>

</Code>
</Section>

# Contact us

If you found a bug or a typo, you can create an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/livechat/livechat-public-docs/). In case of any questions or feedback, don't hesitate to contact us at [developers@livechat.com](mailto:developers@livechat.com)

Commit message:

Mention PAT auth in Reports API

src/pages/data-reporting/reports-api/v3.2/index.mdx, after:

---
weight: 20
category: "data-reporting"
subcategory: "reports-api"
title: "Reports API"
tagline: "Access and extract data from Reports."
desc: "See how you can access and extract data from Reports with the use of Reports API."
versionGroup: "data-reporting"
apiVersion: "3.2"
---

# Introduction

Reports API allows you to **access** and **extract** all the [Reports](https://www.livechat.com/kb/reporting-options-available-in-livechat/) data available in LiveChat.

## Versioning

This document describes the **LiveChat Reports API v3.2**. This is the legacy version we don't recommend for production-ready applications. Instead, use [**LiveChat Reports API v3.3**](../).

## Authorization

You can authorize your calls to the Reports API using one of the following methods:

- [Bearer Token](/authorization/authorizing-api-calls/#implicit-grant)
- [Basic Auth (Personal Access Tokens)](/authorization/authorizing-api-calls/#personal-access-tokens)

## Postman Collection

Use the Postman Collection to try out the requests from the Reports API v3.2.

[<div style={{maxWidth: '123px'}}><img alt="Run in Postman" src="https://run.pstmn.io/button.svg" width="123px" height="30px"/></div>](https://app.getpostman.com/run-collection/81e0e2173c438dfce4f2#?env%5BLiveChat%20Web%20API%5D=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)

# Methods

| The API endpoint                                               |
| -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/reports/<resource>/<action>` |

| Header          | Value            | Required | Notes                                               |
| --------------- | ---------------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `Authorization` | `Bearer <token>` | Yes      | Your access token                                   |
| `X-API-Version` | `3.2`            | No       | You can specify the API version in the URL instead. |

## Available methods

|           |                                                                         |
| --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Chats** | [`agents_chatting_duration`](#agents-chatting-duration) [`tags`](#tags) |

## Chats

<Section>
<Text>

### Agents Chatting Duration

Shows the average chatting duration of agents within a license.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                                           |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/reports/chats/agents_chatting_duration` |
| **HTTP method**     | GET                                                                       |
| **Required scopes** | `reports_read`                                                            |

#### Request

| Query String          | Required | Notes                                                                                                   |
| --------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `to`                  | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format                                                                              |
| `from`                | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format                                                                              |
| `agents`              | no       | Agent emails separated by a comma; if not specified, returns the data for all agents within the license |
| `groups`              | no       | Group IDs separated by a comma                                                                          |
| `tags`                | no       | Names of tags separated by a comma                                                                      |
| `customer_client_ids` | no       | Client IDs separated by a comma                                                                         |
| `distribution`        | no       | Possible values: `hour`, `day-hours`, `day`, `month`; defaults to `day`                                 |
| `tagged`              | no       | Possible values: `true`, `1`, `false`, `0`                                                              |

#### Response

| Field                 | Notes                                                  |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `total`               | The total number of chats in the specified date range. |
| `records`             | Contains `distribution` objects, for example, `day`.   |
| `records.day.count`   | The total number of chats `agents` had that `day`.     |
| `records.day.seconds` | The average chat duration `agents` had that `day`.     |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl "https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/reports/chats/agents_chatting_duration?from=2020-09-01T00:00:00%2B02:00&to=2020-09-14T23:59:59%2B02:00" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.2" json="agentsChattingDuration"/>

</Code>
</Section>

<Section>
<Text>

### Tags

Shows the distribution of tags for chats.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                       |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/reports/chats/tags` |
| **HTTP method**     | GET                                                   |
| **Required scopes** | `reports_read`                                        |

#### Request

| Query String   | Required | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| -------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `to`           | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format                                                                                                                                                               |
| `from`         | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format                                                                                                                                                               |
| `distribution` | yes      | Possible values: `hour`, `day-hours`, `day`, `month`, `year`                                                                                                                             |
| `agents`       | no       | Agent emails separated by a comma; if not specified, returns the data for all agents within the license.                                                                                 |
| `groups`       | no       | Group IDs separated by a comma                                                                                                                                                           |
| `names`        | no       | The names of tags separated by a comma; when `tags=:without:`, you will get the total number of chats without tags, when `tags=:with:` you will get the total number of chats with tags. |

#### Response

| Field               | Notes                                                    |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `total`             | The total number of chats in the specified date range.   |
| `records`           | Contains the `distribution` objects, for example, `day`. |
| `records.day.<tag>` | The total number of chats tagged with `<tag>`.           |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl "https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.2/reports/chats/tags?from=2020-09-01T00:00:00%2B02:00&to=2020-09-14T23:59:59%2B02:00&distribution=day" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.2" json="tags"/>

</Code>
</Section>

# Contact us

If you found a bug or a typo, you can create an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/livechat/livechat-public-docs/). In case of any questions or feedback, don't hesitate to contact us at [developers@livechat.com](mailto:developers@livechat.com)
