content/extending-ui/extending-chat-widget/v2.0/javascript-api/index.mdx, before:

---
weight: 32
category: "extending-ui"
subcategory: "extending-chat-widget"
title: "Chat Widget JS API"
tagline: "Customize the behavior of the Chat Widget."
desc: "Adjust the mechanics of the widget or leverage the API to pass additional details on the Customer."
versionGroup: "chat-widget"
apiVersion: "2.0"
---

# Introduction

## About the API

The Chat Widget JavaScript API lets you interact with the Chat Widget embedded on your site.
It might come in handy whenever you want to gather some additional data using LiveChat, show or hide your Chat Widget on certain occasions, or amend its behavior in a way that is not provided by the standard settings.

This document focuses on Developers and requires a basic knowledge of JavaScript. However, if you would have any questions, don't hesitate to start a chat with our Support Team or add a new topic on [Developers Community](https://www.livechatinc.com/community/c/developers-api).

This API works only with the [new Chat Widget](https://developers.livechatinc.com/blog/new-chat-window-look/).

## Getting started

The API is accessed through the `LiveChatWidget` object.
It is being initialized within the LiveChat tracking code, which is used to install our Chat Widget on your site.
If you haven't installed the code yet, you can  either find it directly in the [LiveChat app](https://my.livechatinc.com/settings/code) or copy it from here (remember to replace `<LICENSE_NUMBER>` with your license number):

```html
<!-- Start of LiveChat (www.livechatinc.com) code -->
<script>
    window.__lc = window.__lc || {};
    window.__lc.license = <LICENSE_NUMBER>;
    ;(function(n,t,c){function i(n){return e._h?e._h.apply(null,n):e._q.push(n)}var e={_q:[],_h:null,_v:"2.0",on:function(){i(["on",c.call(arguments)])},off:function(){i(["off",c.call(arguments)])},get:function(){if(!e._h)throw new Error("[LiveChatWidget] You can't use getters before load.");return i(["get",c.call(arguments)])},call:function(){i(["call",c.call(arguments)])},init:function(){var n=t.createElement("script");n.async=!0,n.type="text/javascript",n.src="https://cdn.livechatinc.com/tracking.js",t.head.appendChild(n)}};!n.__lc.asyncInit&&e.init(),n.LiveChatWidget=n.LiveChatWidget||e}(window,document,[].slice))
</script>
<noscript><a href="https://www.livechatinc.com/chat-with/<LICENSE_NUMBER>/" rel="nofollow">Chat with us</a>, powered by <a href="https://www.livechatinc.com/?welcome" rel="noopener nofollow" target="_blank">LiveChat</a></noscript>
<!-- End of LiveChat code -->
```

The API requires the newest version of the code snippet (≥2.0). If you had installed the code a while ago and the API presented here doesn't work, you should either update the code or use the [old version of JS API](https://developers.livechatinc.com/docs/js-api/#introduction). You can check the current version of your snippet by calling the `scriptTagVersion` function:

```js
LiveChatWidget.scriptTagVersion()
```

The `LiveChatWidget` object comes with four methods:

- `on` registers a callback function for a specific event
- `off` removes a callback registered by `on`
- `call` allows you to trigger functions
- `get` makes it possible to fetch data

Using these methods is based on passing the correct arguments in the following pattern:

```js
LiveChatWidget.method('method', 'data')
```

For example, if you would like to set your customer's name to `John Doe`, this is how it would look like:

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('set_customer_name', 'John Doe')
```

# Methods

To change the visibility of the Chat Widget, you can use the following methods:

- [Maximize](#maximize)
- [Minimize](#minimize)
- [Hide](#hide)
- [Destroy](#destroy)
- [Hide greeting](#hide-greeting)

## Maximize

It maximizes the Chat Widget.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('maximize')
```

## Minimize

It minimizes the Chat Widget.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('minimize')
```

## Hide

It hides the Chat Widget on the site.
You will need to use either 'maximize', or 'minimize' API calls to show it afterwards.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('hide')
```

## Destroy

It destroys the Chat Widget.
It won't be available for further actions until the window is refreshed.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('destroy')
```

## Hide greeting

It hides the currently displayed greeting.
In order to hide particular greeting you can listen to [`new_event`](#on-new-event) or [`greeting_hidden`](#on-greeting-hidden) callbacks to know when greeting with specified `id` or `uniqueId` appears and disappears accordingly.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('hide_greeting')
```

# Getters

You can use getters to fetch the data from the Chat Widget.

Available getters:

- [Get state](#get-state)
- [Get customer data](#get-customer-data)
- [Get chat data](#get-chat-data)

## Get state

It returns the Chat Widget state.
This includes Widget visibility and license availability.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.get('state')
```

#### Response

| param        | type                                         | description                |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| availability | `'online'` \| `'offline'`                    | Group's availability       |
| visibility   | `'maximized'` \| `'minimized'` \| `'hidden'` | the Chat Widget visibility |

## Get customer data

It returns a filtered list of customer data.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.get('customer_data')
```

#### Response

| param            | type                                                      | description                              |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| id               | `string`                                                  | unique customer id                       |
| name             | `string`                                                  | customer name, as provided               |
| email            | `string`                                                  | customer e-mail address, as provided     |
| isReturning      | `boolean`                                                 | if this customer visited you before      |
| status           | `'queued'` \| `'chatting'` \| `'browsing'` \| `'invited'` | Customer's status                        |
| sessionVariables | `Record<string, string>`                                  | additional free-form session information |

## Get chat data

It returns chata data which contains current chat and thread ids.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.get('chat_data')
```

#### Response

| param    | type     | description              |
| -------- | -------- | ------------------------ |
| chatId   | `string` | unique chat id           |
| threadId | `string` | unique current thread id |

# Setters

Various data can be sent over to the LiveChat integration so that your Agents can use it.
For more information, you can read these articles in our Help Center: https://www.livechatinc.com/help/custom-variables-configuration/.

Available setters:

- [Set session variables](#set-session-variables)
- [Update session variables](#update-session-variables)
- [Set customer name](#set-customer-name)
- [Set customer email](#set-customer-email)

## Set session variables

Creates new session variables, or replaces the ones set previously.

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('set_session_variables', {
  username: 'john.doe',
  cart_value: '450',
  'order date': '05/21/2019',
})
```

## Update session variables

It changes the values of your session variables.
Please note that the existing variables won't be replaced. The new session variables will be included together with the ones set previously.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('update_session_variables', {
  username: 'j.doe',
  cart_value: '400',
  'order date': '06/15/2019',
})
```

## Set customer name

It sets the customer's name.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('set_customer_name', 'John Doe')
```

## Set customer email

It sets the customer's email address.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('set_customer_email', 'john@example.com')
```

# Callbacks

Callbacks allow you to react to the events triggered by the Chat Widget.
You can use them to add custom behaviors when certain events happen.
This can be accomplished by subscribing a callback with the API.

Available callbacks:

- [On ready](#on-ready)
- [On availability changed](#on-availability-changed)
- [On visibility changed](#on-visibility-changed)
- [On customer status changed](#on-customer-status-changed)
- [On new event](#on-new-event)
- [On form submitted](#on-form-submitted)
- [On rating submitted](#on-rating-submitted)
- [On greeting dismissed](#on-greeting-dismissed)
- [On rich message button clicked](#on-rich-message-button-clicked)

## On ready

The Chat Widget has finished loading. If the Chat Widget is already loaded the provided handler function will be called immediately.
With this callback, you will receive the Chat Widget state and customer data as if requested by their getters.

#### Payload

| param        | type                               | description                        |
| ------------ | ---------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| state        | [WidgetState](#get-state)          | the Chat Widget state              |
| customerData | [CustomerData](#get-customer-data) | Customer data from the Chat Widget |

```js
function onReady(initialData) {
  // Chat Widget is ready

  var state = initialData.state
  var customerData = initialData.customerData
}

LiveChatWidget.on('ready', onReady)
LiveChatWidget.off('ready', onReady)
```

## On availability changed

Availability has changed for the current group.

#### Payload

| param        | type                      | description             |
| ------------ | ------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| availability | `"online"` \| `"offline"` | Availability of a group |

```js
function onAvailabilityChanged(data) {
  if (data.availability === 'online') {
    // we're available to chat!
  } else {
    // sadly, no agents are available at the moment.
  }
}

LiveChatWidget.on('availability_changed', onAvailabilityChanged)
LiveChatWidget.off('availability_changed', onAvailabilityChanged)
```

## On visibility changed

It is called once the visibility of the Chat Widget has changed.
This applies to both user actions like maximizing or minimizing the window as well as hiding or showing the Chat Widget through the use of this API.

#### Payload

| param      | type                                         | description                |
| ---------- | -------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| visibility | `"maximized"` \| `"minimized"` \| `"hidden"` | the Chat Widget visibility |

```js
function onVisibilityChanged(data) {
  switch (data.visibility) {
    case 'maximized':
      break
    case 'minimized':
      break
    case 'hidden':
      break
  }
}

LiveChatWidget.on('visibility_changed', onVisibilityChanged)
LiveChatWidget.off('visibility_changed', onVisibilityChanged)
```

## On customer status changed

It is called once the status of your customer has changed.
This can be used to track the following info:

- If and when Customers are being invited to chat
- If Customers are already chatting
- If they are waiting for an agent to become available in the queue

#### Payload

| param  | type                                                     | description       |
| ------ | -------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| status | `'queued'` \| `'chatting'` \| `'invited'` \|`'browsing'` | Customer's status |

```js
function onCustomerStatusChanged(data) {
  switch (data.status) {
    case 'queued':
      // customer is in queue
      break
    case 'chatting':
      // customer is currently chatting
      break
    case 'invited':
      // customer received an invitation but didn't start the chat
      break
    case 'browsing':
      // customer is in idle state, not queued, not chatting, and didn't receive an invitation
      break
  }
}

LiveChatWidget.on('customer_status_changed', onCustomerStatusChanged)
LiveChatWidget.off('customer_status_changed', onCustomerStatusChanged)
```

## On new event

It is called for both incoming and outgoing events.

#### Payload

| param                           | type                                        | description               |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------- |
| timestamp                       | `number`                                    | Event's send timestamp    |
| type                            | `'message'` \| `'rich_message'` \| `'file'` | Event's type              |
| author.id                       | `string`                                    | Event's author id         |
| author.type                     | `'customer'` \| `'agent'`                   | Event's author type       |
| **If new event is a greeting:** |                                             |                           |
| greeting.id                     | `number`                                    | Greeting's template id    |
| greeting.uniqueId               | `string`                                    | Greeting's event uniqueId |

```js
function onNewEvent(event) {
  switch (event.type) {
    case 'message':
      // handle new message event
      break

    case 'rich_message':
      // handle new rich_message event
      break

    case 'file':
      // handle new file event
      break

    default:
      break
  }

  if (event.greeting) {
    // new event is a greeting
    // greeting properties are available
    var id = greeting.id
    var uniqueId = greeting.uniqueId
  }
}

LiveChatWidget.on('new_event', onNewEvent)
LiveChatWidget.off('new_event', onNewEvent)
```

## On form submitted

It is called after a form has been submitted in the chat.

Payload:

| param | type                                      | description |
| ----- | ----------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| type  | `"prechat"` \| `"postchat"` \| `"ticket"` | Form's type |

```js
function onFormSubmitted(data) {
  switch (data.type) {
    case 'prechat':
      // prechat submitted
      break

    case 'postchat':
      // postchat submitted
      break

    case 'ticket':
      // ticket submitted
      break

    default:
      break
  }
}

LiveChatWidget.on('form_submitted', onFormSubmitted)
LiveChatWidget.off('form_submitted', onFormSubmitted)
```

## On rating submitted

It is called after the customer has rated the chat, or cancelled the previous rating.

#### Payload

| param | type                            | description             |
| ----- | ------------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| value | `"good"` \| `"bad"` \| `"none"` | Customer's rating value |

```js
function onRatingSubmitted(value) {
  // do something
}

LiveChatWidget.on('rating_submitted', onRatingSubmitted)
LiveChatWidget.off('rating_submitted', onRatingSubmitted)
```

## On greeting displayed

It is called after the greeting has been displayed to the customer.

#### Payload

| param    | type     | description               |
| -------- | -------- | ------------------------- |
| id       | `number` | Greeting's template id    |
| uniqueId | `string` | Greeting's event uniqueId |

```js
function onGreetingDisplayed(greeting) {
  // greeting has been displayed
  var id = greeting.id
  var uniqueId = greeting.uniqueId
}

LiveChatWidget.on('greeting_displayed', onGreetingDisplayed)
LiveChatWidget.off('greeting_displayed', onGreetingDisplayed)
```

## On greeting hidden

It is called after the greeting has been cancelled by the customer or [`hide_greeting`](#hide-greeting) method.

#### Payload

| param    | type     | description               |
| -------- | -------- | ------------------------- |
| id       | `number` | Greeting's template id    |
| uniqueId | `string` | Greeting's event uniqueId |

```js
function onGreetingHidden(greeting) {
  // greeting has been hidden
  var id = greeting.id
  var uniqueId = greeting.uniqueId
}

LiveChatWidget.on('greeting_hidden', onGreetingHidden)
LiveChatWidget.off('greeting_hidden', onGreetingHidden)
```

## On rich message button clicked

It is called after the rich message button has been clicked by the customer.

#### Payload

| param                                         | type     | description                  |
| --------------------------------------------- | -------- | ---------------------------- |
| eventId                                       | `string` | Button's owner event's id    |
| postbackId                                    | `string` | Clicked button's postback id |
| **If button was included in greeting event:** |          |                              |
| greeting.id                                   | `number` | Greeting's template id       |
| greeting.uniqueId                             | `string` | Greeting's event uniqueId    |

```js
function onRichMessageButtonClicked(data) {
  // rich message button clicked
  var eventId = data.eventId
  var postbackId = data.postbackId

  if (data.greeting) {
    // clicked button belongs to greeting event
    var greetingId = data.greeting.id
    var greetingUniqueId = data.greeting.uniqueId
  }
}

LiveChatWidget.on('rich_message_button_clicked', onRichMessageButtonClicked)
LiveChatWidget.off('rich_message_button_clicked', onRichMessageButtonClicked)
```

# Playground

Here's where you can play with the Chat Widget JavaScript API in an interactive environment. Use the buttons and inputs on the left side of the Widget or try to invoke some functions directly in the console.

<iframe src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/static-ejhgy?autoresize=1&expanddevtools=1&fontsize=14&hidenavigation=1&view=preview" style="width: 100%; height: 750px; max-height: 100vh; border: 0; border-radius: 4px; overflow: hidden;"></iframe>

# Examples

Here you can find some example usage of the Chat Widget JavaScript API. They all require the Widget to be installed on the page and `window.LiveChatWidget` to be defined.

## Show the Widget after time

Show the Chat Widget after 30 seconds and keep it open after reloading.

```js
LiveChatWidget.on('visibility_changed', function(data) {
  if (data.visibility === 'maximized') {
    localStorage.setItem('livechat_chat_visible', true)
  }
})

var isWidgetVisible = Boolean(localStorage.getItem('livechat_chat_visible'))

if (!isWidgetVisible) {
  setTimeout(function() {
    LiveChatWidget.call('maximize')
  }, 30000)
}
```

## Open the Widget using the button

Show the hidden or minimized Widget after a button has been clicked.
You can change the Widget visibility as described in our [Help Center](https://www.livechatinc.com/help/chat-widget-visibility/)

```js
var chatButton = document.getElementById('chat-btn')
chatButton.addEventListener('click', function() {
  LiveChatWidget.call('maximize')
})
```

## Prefill username and email

It sets the Customers name and email using their login and email.

```js
var user = JSON.parse(localStorage.getItem('user'))

LiveChatWidget.call('set_customer_name', user.login)
LiveChatWidget.call('set_customer_email', user.email)
```

Commit message:

add once function description to the js api docs

content/extending-ui/extending-chat-widget/v2.0/javascript-api/index.mdx, after:

---
weight: 32
category: "extending-ui"
subcategory: "extending-chat-widget"
title: "Chat Widget JS API"
tagline: "Customize the behavior of the Chat Widget."
desc: "Adjust the mechanics of the widget or leverage the API to pass additional details on the Customer."
versionGroup: "chat-widget"
apiVersion: "2.0"
---

# Introduction

## About the API

The Chat Widget JavaScript API lets you interact with the Chat Widget embedded on your site.
It might come in handy whenever you want to gather some additional data using LiveChat, show or hide your Chat Widget on certain occasions, or amend its behavior in a way that is not provided by the standard settings.

This document focuses on Developers and requires a basic knowledge of JavaScript. However, if you would have any questions, don't hesitate to start a chat with our Support Team or add a new topic on [Developers Community](https://www.livechatinc.com/community/c/developers-api).

This API works only with the [new Chat Widget](https://developers.livechatinc.com/blog/new-chat-window-look/).

## Getting started

The API is accessed through the `LiveChatWidget` object.
It is being initialized within the LiveChat tracking code, which is used to install our Chat Widget on your site.
If you haven't installed the code yet, you can  either find it directly in the [LiveChat app](https://my.livechatinc.com/settings/code) or copy it from here (remember to replace `<LICENSE_NUMBER>` with your license number):

```html
<!-- Start of LiveChat (www.livechatinc.com) code -->
<script>
    window.__lc = window.__lc || {};
    window.__lc.license = <LICENSE_NUMBER>;
    ;(function(n,t,c){function i(n){return e._h?e._h.apply(null,n):e._q.push(n)}var e={_q:[],_h:null,_v:"2.0",on:function(){i(["on",c.call(arguments)])},off:function(){i(["off",c.call(arguments)])},get:function(){if(!e._h)throw new Error("[LiveChatWidget] You can't use getters before load.");return i(["get",c.call(arguments)])},call:function(){i(["call",c.call(arguments)])},init:function(){var n=t.createElement("script");n.async=!0,n.type="text/javascript",n.src="https://cdn.livechatinc.com/tracking.js",t.head.appendChild(n)}};!n.__lc.asyncInit&&e.init(),n.LiveChatWidget=n.LiveChatWidget||e}(window,document,[].slice))
</script>
<noscript><a href="https://www.livechatinc.com/chat-with/<LICENSE_NUMBER>/" rel="nofollow">Chat with us</a>, powered by <a href="https://www.livechatinc.com/?welcome" rel="noopener nofollow" target="_blank">LiveChat</a></noscript>
<!-- End of LiveChat code -->
```

The API requires the newest version of the code snippet (≥2.0). If you had installed the code a while ago and the API presented here doesn't work, you should either update the code or use the [old version of JS API](https://developers.livechatinc.com/docs/js-api/#introduction). You can check the current version of your snippet by calling the `scriptTagVersion` function:

```js
LiveChatWidget.scriptTagVersion()
```

The `LiveChatWidget` object comes with four functions:

- `on` registers a callback function for a specific event
- `once` similar to `on` but after single event trigger the callback is removed
- `off` removes a callback registered by `on`
- `call` allows you to invoke methods and setters
- `get` makes it possible to fetch data

Usage of these functions is based on passing the correct arguments in the following pattern:

```js
LiveChatWidget.function('method', 'data')
```

For example, if you would like to set your customer's name to `John Doe`, this is how it would look like:

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('set_customer_name', 'John Doe')
```

# Methods

To change the visibility of the Chat Widget, you can use the following methods:

- [Maximize](#maximize)
- [Minimize](#minimize)
- [Hide](#hide)
- [Destroy](#destroy)
- [Hide greeting](#hide-greeting)

## Maximize

It maximizes the Chat Widget.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('maximize')
```

## Minimize

It minimizes the Chat Widget.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('minimize')
```

## Hide

It hides the Chat Widget on the site.
You will need to use either 'maximize', or 'minimize' API calls to show it afterwards.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('hide')
```

## Destroy

It destroys the Chat Widget.
It won't be available for further actions until the window is refreshed.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('destroy')
```

## Hide greeting

It hides the currently displayed greeting.
In order to hide particular greeting you can listen to [`new_event`](#on-new-event) or [`greeting_hidden`](#on-greeting-hidden) callbacks to know when greeting with specified `id` or `uniqueId` appears and disappears accordingly.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('hide_greeting')
```

# Getters

You can use getters to fetch the data from the Chat Widget.

Available getters:

- [Get state](#get-state)
- [Get customer data](#get-customer-data)
- [Get chat data](#get-chat-data)

## Get state

It returns the Chat Widget state.
This includes Widget visibility and license availability.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.get('state')
```

#### Response

| param        | type                                         | description                |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| availability | `'online'` \| `'offline'`                    | Group's availability       |
| visibility   | `'maximized'` \| `'minimized'` \| `'hidden'` | the Chat Widget visibility |

## Get customer data

It returns a filtered list of customer data.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.get('customer_data')
```

#### Response

| param            | type                                                      | description                              |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| id               | `string`                                                  | unique customer id                       |
| name             | `string`                                                  | customer name, as provided               |
| email            | `string`                                                  | customer e-mail address, as provided     |
| isReturning      | `boolean`                                                 | if this customer visited you before      |
| status           | `'queued'` \| `'chatting'` \| `'browsing'` \| `'invited'` | Customer's status                        |
| sessionVariables | `Record<string, string>`                                  | additional free-form session information |

## Get chat data

It returns chata data which contains current chat and thread ids.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.get('chat_data')
```

#### Response

| param    | type     | description              |
| -------- | -------- | ------------------------ |
| chatId   | `string` | unique chat id           |
| threadId | `string` | unique current thread id |

# Setters

Various data can be sent over to the LiveChat integration so that your Agents can use it.
For more information, you can read these articles in our Help Center: https://www.livechatinc.com/help/custom-variables-configuration/.

Available setters:

- [Set session variables](#set-session-variables)
- [Update session variables](#update-session-variables)
- [Set customer name](#set-customer-name)
- [Set customer email](#set-customer-email)

## Set session variables

Creates new session variables, or replaces the ones set previously.

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('set_session_variables', {
  username: 'john.doe',
  cart_value: '450',
  'order date': '05/21/2019',
})
```

## Update session variables

It changes the values of your session variables.
Please note that the existing variables won't be replaced. The new session variables will be included together with the ones set previously.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('update_session_variables', {
  username: 'j.doe',
  cart_value: '400',
  'order date': '06/15/2019',
})
```

## Set customer name

It sets the customer's name.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('set_customer_name', 'John Doe')
```

## Set customer email

It sets the customer's email address.

#### Example

```js
LiveChatWidget.call('set_customer_email', 'john@example.com')
```

# Callbacks

Callbacks allow you to react to the events triggered by the Chat Widget.
You can use them to add custom behaviors when certain events happen.
This can be accomplished by subscribing a callback with the API.

Available callbacks:

- [On ready](#on-ready)
- [On availability changed](#on-availability-changed)
- [On visibility changed](#on-visibility-changed)
- [On customer status changed](#on-customer-status-changed)
- [On new event](#on-new-event)
- [On form submitted](#on-form-submitted)
- [On rating submitted](#on-rating-submitted)
- [On greeting dismissed](#on-greeting-dismissed)
- [On rich message button clicked](#on-rich-message-button-clicked)

## On ready

The Chat Widget has finished loading. If the Chat Widget is already loaded the provided handler function will be called immediately.
With this callback, you will receive the Chat Widget state and customer data as if requested by their getters.

#### Payload

| param        | type                               | description                        |
| ------------ | ---------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| state        | [WidgetState](#get-state)          | the Chat Widget state              |
| customerData | [CustomerData](#get-customer-data) | Customer data from the Chat Widget |

```js
function onReady(initialData) {
  // Chat Widget is ready

  var state = initialData.state
  var customerData = initialData.customerData
}

LiveChatWidget.on('ready', onReady)
LiveChatWidget.off('ready', onReady)
```

## On availability changed

Availability has changed for the current group.

#### Payload

| param        | type                      | description             |
| ------------ | ------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| availability | `"online"` \| `"offline"` | Availability of a group |

```js
function onAvailabilityChanged(data) {
  if (data.availability === 'online') {
    // we're available to chat!
  } else {
    // sadly, no agents are available at the moment.
  }
}

LiveChatWidget.on('availability_changed', onAvailabilityChanged)
LiveChatWidget.off('availability_changed', onAvailabilityChanged)
```

## On visibility changed

It is called once the visibility of the Chat Widget has changed.
This applies to both user actions like maximizing or minimizing the window as well as hiding or showing the Chat Widget through the use of this API.

#### Payload

| param      | type                                         | description                |
| ---------- | -------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| visibility | `"maximized"` \| `"minimized"` \| `"hidden"` | the Chat Widget visibility |

```js
function onVisibilityChanged(data) {
  switch (data.visibility) {
    case 'maximized':
      break
    case 'minimized':
      break
    case 'hidden':
      break
  }
}

LiveChatWidget.on('visibility_changed', onVisibilityChanged)
LiveChatWidget.off('visibility_changed', onVisibilityChanged)
```

## On customer status changed

It is called once the status of your customer has changed.
This can be used to track the following info:

- If and when Customers are being invited to chat
- If Customers are already chatting
- If they are waiting for an agent to become available in the queue

#### Payload

| param  | type                                                     | description       |
| ------ | -------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| status | `'queued'` \| `'chatting'` \| `'invited'` \|`'browsing'` | Customer's status |

```js
function onCustomerStatusChanged(data) {
  switch (data.status) {
    case 'queued':
      // customer is in queue
      break
    case 'chatting':
      // customer is currently chatting
      break
    case 'invited':
      // customer received an invitation but didn't start the chat
      break
    case 'browsing':
      // customer is in idle state, not queued, not chatting, and didn't receive an invitation
      break
  }
}

LiveChatWidget.on('customer_status_changed', onCustomerStatusChanged)
LiveChatWidget.off('customer_status_changed', onCustomerStatusChanged)
```

## On new event

It is called for both incoming and outgoing events.

#### Payload

| param                           | type                                        | description               |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------- |
| timestamp                       | `number`                                    | Event's send timestamp    |
| type                            | `'message'` \| `'rich_message'` \| `'file'` | Event's type              |
| author.id                       | `string`                                    | Event's author id         |
| author.type                     | `'customer'` \| `'agent'`                   | Event's author type       |
| **If new event is a greeting:** |                                             |                           |
| greeting.id                     | `number`                                    | Greeting's template id    |
| greeting.uniqueId               | `string`                                    | Greeting's event uniqueId |

```js
function onNewEvent(event) {
  switch (event.type) {
    case 'message':
      // handle new message event
      break

    case 'rich_message':
      // handle new rich_message event
      break

    case 'file':
      // handle new file event
      break

    default:
      break
  }

  if (event.greeting) {
    // new event is a greeting
    // greeting properties are available
    var id = greeting.id
    var uniqueId = greeting.uniqueId
  }
}

LiveChatWidget.on('new_event', onNewEvent)
LiveChatWidget.off('new_event', onNewEvent)
```

## On form submitted

It is called after a form has been submitted in the chat.

Payload:

| param | type                                      | description |
| ----- | ----------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| type  | `"prechat"` \| `"postchat"` \| `"ticket"` | Form's type |

```js
function onFormSubmitted(data) {
  switch (data.type) {
    case 'prechat':
      // prechat submitted
      break

    case 'postchat':
      // postchat submitted
      break

    case 'ticket':
      // ticket submitted
      break

    default:
      break
  }
}

LiveChatWidget.on('form_submitted', onFormSubmitted)
LiveChatWidget.off('form_submitted', onFormSubmitted)
```

## On rating submitted

It is called after the customer has rated the chat, or cancelled the previous rating.

#### Payload

| param | type                            | description             |
| ----- | ------------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| value | `"good"` \| `"bad"` \| `"none"` | Customer's rating value |

```js
function onRatingSubmitted(value) {
  // do something
}

LiveChatWidget.on('rating_submitted', onRatingSubmitted)
LiveChatWidget.off('rating_submitted', onRatingSubmitted)
```

## On greeting displayed

It is called after the greeting has been displayed to the customer.

#### Payload

| param    | type     | description               |
| -------- | -------- | ------------------------- |
| id       | `number` | Greeting's template id    |
| uniqueId | `string` | Greeting's event uniqueId |

```js
function onGreetingDisplayed(greeting) {
  // greeting has been displayed
  var id = greeting.id
  var uniqueId = greeting.uniqueId
}

LiveChatWidget.on('greeting_displayed', onGreetingDisplayed)
LiveChatWidget.off('greeting_displayed', onGreetingDisplayed)
```

## On greeting hidden

It is called after the greeting has been cancelled by the customer or [`hide_greeting`](#hide-greeting) method.

#### Payload

| param    | type     | description               |
| -------- | -------- | ------------------------- |
| id       | `number` | Greeting's template id    |
| uniqueId | `string` | Greeting's event uniqueId |

```js
function onGreetingHidden(greeting) {
  // greeting has been hidden
  var id = greeting.id
  var uniqueId = greeting.uniqueId
}

LiveChatWidget.on('greeting_hidden', onGreetingHidden)
LiveChatWidget.off('greeting_hidden', onGreetingHidden)
```

## On rich message button clicked

It is called after the rich message button has been clicked by the customer.

#### Payload

| param                                         | type     | description                  |
| --------------------------------------------- | -------- | ---------------------------- |
| eventId                                       | `string` | Button's owner event's id    |
| postbackId                                    | `string` | Clicked button's postback id |
| **If button was included in greeting event:** |          |                              |
| greeting.id                                   | `number` | Greeting's template id       |
| greeting.uniqueId                             | `string` | Greeting's event uniqueId    |

```js
function onRichMessageButtonClicked(data) {
  // rich message button clicked
  var eventId = data.eventId
  var postbackId = data.postbackId

  if (data.greeting) {
    // clicked button belongs to greeting event
    var greetingId = data.greeting.id
    var greetingUniqueId = data.greeting.uniqueId
  }
}

LiveChatWidget.on('rich_message_button_clicked', onRichMessageButtonClicked)
LiveChatWidget.off('rich_message_button_clicked', onRichMessageButtonClicked)
```

# Playground

Here's where you can play with the Chat Widget JavaScript API in an interactive environment. Use the buttons and inputs on the left side of the Widget or try to invoke some functions directly in the console.

<iframe src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/static-ejhgy?autoresize=1&expanddevtools=1&fontsize=14&hidenavigation=1&view=preview" style="width: 100%; height: 750px; max-height: 100vh; border: 0; border-radius: 4px; overflow: hidden;"></iframe>

# Examples

Here you can find some example usage of the Chat Widget JavaScript API. They all require the Widget to be installed on the page and `window.LiveChatWidget` to be defined.

## Show the Widget after time

Show the Chat Widget after 30 seconds and keep it open after reloading.

```js
LiveChatWidget.on('visibility_changed', function(data) {
  if (data.visibility === 'maximized') {
    localStorage.setItem('livechat_chat_visible', true)
  }
})

var isWidgetVisible = Boolean(localStorage.getItem('livechat_chat_visible'))

if (!isWidgetVisible) {
  setTimeout(function() {
    LiveChatWidget.call('maximize')
  }, 30000)
}
```

## Open the Widget using the button

Show the hidden or minimized Widget after a button has been clicked.
You can change the Widget visibility as described in our [Help Center](https://www.livechatinc.com/help/chat-widget-visibility/)

```js
var chatButton = document.getElementById('chat-btn')
chatButton.addEventListener('click', function() {
  LiveChatWidget.call('maximize')
})
```

## Prefill username and email

It sets the Customers name and email using their login and email.

```js
var user = JSON.parse(localStorage.getItem('user'))

LiveChatWidget.call('set_customer_name', user.login)
LiveChatWidget.call('set_customer_email', user.email)
```
