site/content/product-cards/introduction.md, before:

---
weight: 10
---

# Introduction

Hello, developer!

This tutorial helps you build your own backend service that you can use to connect your store with <a href="https://www.livechatinc.com/marketplace/apps/product-cards/" target="_blank">Product cards app</a>.

![Product Cards preview](https://cdn.livechat-static.com/api/file/v2/lc/att-old/8656216/5f2833fbbdcd1ee5c933867031d975a6/shopping-cards-for-shopify-beta.gif)

## What are Product Cards? 

Product Cards app lets you **send product recommendations without leaving LiveChat**, allowing you to save time on skipping between chats and product pages in your store. You can search through products, choose one or more items, and send them to the customers right on a chat.

Each product card consists of an image, description, and a button that is linked to a product page in your store.

## Important notes

To use this tool you need to have basic knowledge about creating RESTful backend service in any programming language *(i.e., node.js, Golang or PHP)*.

Commit message:

PP-607 PP-642 - mention validator tool in the docs

site/content/product-cards/introduction.md, after:

---
weight: 10
---

# Introduction

Hello, developer!

This tutorial helps you build your own backend service that you can use to connect your store with <a href="https://www.livechatinc.com/marketplace/apps/product-cards/" target="_blank">Product cards app</a>.

![Product Cards preview](https://cdn.livechat-static.com/api/file/v2/lc/att-old/8656216/5f2833fbbdcd1ee5c933867031d975a6/shopping-cards-for-shopify-beta.gif)

## What are Product Cards? 

Product Cards app lets you **send product recommendations without leaving LiveChat**, allowing you to save time on skipping between chats and product pages in your store. You can search through products, choose one or more items, and send them to the customers right on a chat.

Each product card consists of an image, description, and a button that is linked to a product page in your store.

## Important notes

To use this tool you need to have basic knowledge about creating RESTful backend service in any programming language *(i.e., node.js, Golang or PHP)*.

Our team had prepared a <a href="https://productcards.livechatinc.com/#/validator/" target="_blank">Validator Tool</a> that allows you to test your implementation.
