site/content/product-cards/store-api.md, before:

---
weight: 30
---

# Store API

This section describes all endpoints that you should implement in your backend service. 

## Security

```
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: https://productcards.livechatinc.com
Access-Control-Allow-Methods: GET, POST, OPTIONS
```

To avoid CORS-related conflicts, you should set proper `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` and `Access-Control-Allow-Methods` headers.

```
Product Cards client ID: 9e63f93f6782051e6a43549c132a1f7a
```

The app uses **LiveChat OAuth token** to authorize requests sent to your backend service. To confirm that the user is authorized, you should [validate given token](../authorization/#validating-the-access-token) and check if it matches Product Cards client ID **and** your license number.

## Stores

```bash
curl -X GET \
  'https://store.com/api/stores' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <livechat-access-token>'
```

The very first request (that will be sent to your backend from our app) fetches basic info about stores available for Product Cards app. It means that it's possible to have more than one store connected to Product Cards. Widget calls your backend for a list of stores as follows:

*__Note__: Even if you want to connect only one store, you need to create this endpoint and provide us the store ID - it's required for next requests.*

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id": "1001", // internal id of a store
    "name": "MyStore"
  },
  {
    "id": "1002",
    "name": "MyStore2"
  }
]
``` 

## Categories

Next Product Cards will fetch information about categories available in the store. The **Categories filter** is based on this endpoint data. 

```bash
curl -X GET \
  'https://store.com/api/categories?storeId=10001&page=1' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <livechat-access-token>'
```

Parameters:

- **storeId**: is an internal ID provided by `/stores` endpoint
- **page** *(optional):* allows to paginate categories (default: `1`)

Example response:

```json
{
  "categories": [
    {
      "id": "5001", // internal id of a category
      "name": "Books"
    },
    {
      "id": "5010",
      "name": "Games"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Products

Last but not least, the app will fetch a list of products which show up in the form of tiles. The response can be paginated, based on <a href ="https://github.com/NationalBankBelgium/REST-API-Design-Guide/wiki/Pagination-Example" target="_blank">*NationalBankBelgium* REST API Design Guide</a>.

```bash
curl -X GET \
  'https://store.com/api/products?storeId=10001&page=1&term=Harry+Potter&sort=name&direction=asc&categories=5001%2C5010' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <livechat-access-token>'
```

Parameters:

- **storeId**: is an internal ID provided by `/stores` endpoint
- **page** *(optional):* allows to paginate products (default: `1`)
- **term** *(optional):* allows to filter products by name
- **sort** *(optional):* allows to sort by field (supported values: `id`, `name`)
- **direction** *(optional):* allows to determine sort's direction (supported values: `asc`, `desc`)
- **categories** *(optional):* allows to filter products by a list of categories (list of IDs separated by comma)

Example response:

```json
{
  "products": [
    {
      "id": "2001",
      "name": "Harry Potter",
      "description": "New adventures of a young wizard.",
      "productUrl": "https://store.com/item/2001/harry+potter",
      "imageUrl": "https://cdn.store.com/item_2001.jpg"
    }
  ],
  "pagination": {
    "currentPage": 2,
    "limit": 50,
    "offset": 50,
    "previousOffset": 0,
    "pageCount": 7,
    "totalCount": 310
  }
}
```

Commit message:

PP-607 PP-642 - mention validator tool in the docs

site/content/product-cards/store-api.md, after:

---
weight: 30
---

# Store API

This section describes all endpoints that you should implement in your backend service. You can use our <a href="https://productcards.livechatinc.com/#/validator/" target="_blank">Validator Tool</a> to test your implementation.

## Security

```
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: https://productcards.livechatinc.com
Access-Control-Allow-Methods: GET, POST, OPTIONS
```

To avoid CORS-related conflicts, you should set proper `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` and `Access-Control-Allow-Methods` headers.

```
Product Cards client ID: 9e63f93f6782051e6a43549c132a1f7a
```

The app uses **LiveChat OAuth token** to authorize requests sent to your backend service. To confirm that the user is authorized, you should [validate given token](../authorization/#validating-the-access-token) and check if it matches Product Cards client ID **and** your license number.

## Stores

```bash
curl -X GET \
  'https://store.com/api/stores' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <livechat-access-token>'
```

The very first request (that will be sent to your backend from our app) fetches basic info about stores available for Product Cards app. It means that it's possible to have more than one store connected to Product Cards. Widget calls your backend for a list of stores as follows:

*__Note__: Even if you want to connect only one store, you need to create this endpoint and provide us the store ID - it's required for next requests.*

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id": "1001", // internal id of a store
    "name": "MyStore"
  },
  {
    "id": "1002",
    "name": "MyStore2"
  }
]
``` 

## Categories

Next Product Cards will fetch information about categories available in the store. The **Categories filter** is based on this endpoint data. 

```bash
curl -X GET \
  'https://store.com/api/categories?storeId=10001&page=1' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <livechat-access-token>'
```

Parameters:

- **storeId**: is an internal ID provided by `/stores` endpoint
- **page** *(optional):* allows to paginate categories (default: `1`)

Example response:

```json
{
  "categories": [
    {
      "id": "5001", // internal id of a category
      "name": "Books"
    },
    {
      "id": "5010",
      "name": "Games"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Products

Last but not least, the app will fetch a list of products which show up in the form of tiles. The response can be paginated, based on <a href ="https://github.com/NationalBankBelgium/REST-API-Design-Guide/wiki/Pagination-Example" target="_blank">*NationalBankBelgium* REST API Design Guide</a>.

```bash
curl -X GET \
  'https://store.com/api/products?storeId=10001&page=1&term=Harry+Potter&sort=name&direction=asc&categories=5001%2C5010' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <livechat-access-token>'
```

Parameters:

- **storeId**: is an internal ID provided by `/stores` endpoint
- **page** *(optional):* allows to paginate products (default: `1`)
- **term** *(optional):* allows to filter products by name
- **sort** *(optional):* allows to sort by field (supported values: `id`, `name`)
- **direction** *(optional):* allows to determine sort's direction (supported values: `asc`, `desc`)
- **categories** *(optional):* allows to filter products by a list of categories (list of IDs separated by comma)

Example response:

```json
{
  "products": [
    {
      "id": "2001",
      "name": "Harry Potter",
      "description": "New adventures of a young wizard.",
      "productUrl": "https://store.com/item/2001/harry+potter",
      "imageUrl": "https://cdn.store.com/item_2001.jpg"
    }
  ],
  "pagination": {
    "currentPage": 2,
    "limit": 50,
    "offset": 50,
    "previousOffset": 0,
    "pageCount": 7,
    "totalCount": 310
  }
}
```
