content/data-reporting/reports-api/index.mdx, before:

---
weight: 10
category: "data-reporting"
subcategory: "reports-api"
title: "Reports API"
tagline: "Access and extract data from Reports."
desc: "See how you can access and extract data from Reports with the use of Reports API."
versionGroup: "data-reporting"
apiVersion: "3.3"
---

# Introduction

Reports API allows you to **access** and **extract** all the [Reports](https://www.livechat.com/kb/reporting-options-available-in-livechat/) data available in LiveChat.

## Versioning

This document describes the **LiveChat Reports API v3.3**. This is the latest stable version recommended for the production use.

## Authorization

To call the Reports API, you need to use a Bearer access token. [Learn how to get it.](/authorization/authorizing-api-calls/#implicit-grant)

# Methods

| The API endpoint                                               |
| -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.3/reports/<resource>/<action>` |

| Header          | Value            | Required | Notes                                               |
| --------------- | ---------------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `Authorization` | `Bearer <token>` | Yes      | Your access token                                   |
| `X-API-Version` | `3.3`            | No       | You can specify the API version in the URL instead. |

## Available methods

|           |                                                                                                       |
| --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Chats** | [`agents_chatting_duration`](#agents-chatting-duration) [`tags`](#tags) [`total_chats`](#total-chats) |

## Chats

<Section>
<Text>

### Agents Chatting Duration

Shows the average chatting duration of agents within a license.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                                           |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.3/reports/chats/agents_chatting_duration` |
| **HTTP method**     | GET                                                                       |
| **Required scopes** | -                                                                         |

#### Request

| Query String          | Required | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| --------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `to`                  | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format, which also contains a timezone. This timezone will be used if no `timezone` is provided.                                                                                                     |
| `from`                | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format, which also contains a timezone. This timezone will be used if no `timezone` is provided.                                                                                                     |
| `agents`              | no       | Agent emails separated by a comma; if not specified, returns the data for all agents within the license.                                                                                                                 |
| `groups`              | no       | Group IDs separated by a comma                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `tags`                | no       | Names of tags separated by a comma                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `customer_client_ids` | no       | Client IDs separated by a comma                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `distribution`        | no       | Possible values: `hour`, `day-hours`, `day`, `month`; defaults to `day`                                                                                                                                                  |
| `timezone`            | no       | Timezone in the [TZ format](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) (e.g. America/Phoenix). Defaults to the requester's timezone. If not present, `from` is parsed to get the requester's timezone. |
| `tagged`              | no       | Possible values: `true`, `1`, `false`, `0`                                                                                                                                                                               |

#### Response

| Field                 | Notes                                                  |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `total`               | The total number of chats in the specified date range. |
| `records`             | Contains `distribution` objects, for example, `day`.   |
| `records.day.count`   | The total number of chats `agents` had that `day`.     |
| `records.day.seconds` | The average chat duration `agents` had that `day`.     |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl "https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.3/reports/chats/agents_chatting_duration?from=2020-09-01T00:00:00%2B02:00&to=2020-09-14T23:59:59%2B02:00" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.3" json="agentsChattingDuration"/>

</Code>
</Section>

<Section>
<Text>

### Tags

Shows the distribution of tags for chats.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                       |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.3/reports/chats/tags` |
| **HTTP method**     | GET                                                   |
| **Required scopes** | -                                                     |

#### Request

| Query String   | Required | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| -------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `to`           | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format, which also contains a timezone. This timezone will be used if no `timezone` is provided.                                                                                                     |
| `from`         | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format, which also contains a timezone. This timezone will be used if no `timezone` is provided.                                                                                                     |
| `distribution` | yes      | Possible values: `hour`, `day-hours`, `day`, `month`, `year`                                                                                                                                                             |
| `timezone`     | no       | Timezone in the [TZ format](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) (e.g. America/Phoenix). Defaults to the requester's timezone. If not present, `from` is parsed to get the requester's timezone. |
| `agents`       | no       | Agent emails separated by a comma; if not specified, returns the data for all agents within the license.                                                                                                                 |
| `groups`       | no       | Group IDs separated by a comma                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `names`        | no       | The names of tags separated by a comma; when `tags=:without:`, you will get the total number of chats without tags, when `tags=:with:` you will get the total number of chats with tags.                                 |

#### Response

| Field               | Notes                                                    |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `total`             | The total number of chats in the specified date range.   |
| `records`           | Contains the `distribution` objects, for example, `day`. |
| `records.day.<tag>` | The total number of chats tagged with `<tag>`.           |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl "https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.3/reports/chats/tags?from=2020-09-01T00:00:00%2B02:00&to=2020-09-14T23:59:59%2B02:00&distribution=day" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.3" json="tags"/>

</Code>
</Section>

<Section>
<Text>

### Total Chats

Shows how many chats occurred during the specified period.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                              |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.3/reports/chats/total_chats` |
| **HTTP method**     | GET                                                          |
| **Required scopes** | -                                                            |

#### Request

| Query String          | Required | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| --------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `to`                  | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format, which also contains a timezone. This timezone will be used if no `timezone` is provided.                                                                                                     |
| `from`                | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format, which also contains a timezone. This timezone will be used if no `timezone` is provided.                                                                                                     |
| `distribution`        | no       | Possible values: `hour`, `day-hours`, `day`, `month`; defaults to `day`                                                                                                                                                  |
| `timezone`            | no       | Timezone in the [TZ format](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) (e.g. America/Phoenix). Defaults to the requester's timezone. If not present, `from` is parsed to get the requester's timezone. |
| `agents`              | no       | Agent emails separated by a comma; if not specified, returns the data for all agents within the license.                                                                                                                 |
| `agent_assigned`      | no       | Possible values: `true`, `1`, `false`, `0`                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `groups`              | no       | Group IDs separated by a comma                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `customer_client_ids` | no       | Client IDs separated by a comma                                                                                                                                                                                          |  |
| `tags`                | no       | Names of tags separated by a comma                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `tagged`              | no       | Possible values: `true`, `1`, `false`, `0`                                                                                                                                                                               |

#### Response

| Field                    | Notes                                                    |
| ------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `total`                  | The total number of chats in the specified date range.   |
| `records`                | Contains the `distribution` objects, for example, `day`. |
| `records.day.total`      | The total number of chats that `day`.                    |
| `records.day.continuous` | The number of continuous chats that `day`.               |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl "https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.3/reports/chats/total_chats?from=2020-09-01T00:00:00%2B02:00&to=2020-09-14T23:59:59%2B02:00" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.3" json="totalChats"/>

</Code>
</Section>

# Contact us

If you found a bug or a typo, you can create an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/livechat/livechat-public-docs/). In case of any questions or feedback, don't hesitate to contact us at [developers@livechat.com](mailto:developers@livechat.com)

Commit message:

[DPS-2853] Added Postman Collections to v.3.3 APIs and updated v2.0 APIs (#896)

content/data-reporting/reports-api/index.mdx, after:

---
weight: 10
category: "data-reporting"
subcategory: "reports-api"
title: "Reports API"
tagline: "Access and extract data from Reports."
desc: "See how you can access and extract data from Reports with the use of Reports API."
versionGroup: "data-reporting"
apiVersion: "3.3"
---

# Introduction

Reports API allows you to **access** and **extract** all the [Reports](https://www.livechat.com/kb/reporting-options-available-in-livechat/) data available in LiveChat.

## Versioning

This document describes the **LiveChat Reports API v3.3**. This is the latest stable version recommended for the production use.

## Authorization

To call the Reports API, you need to use a Bearer access token. [Learn how to get it.](/authorization/authorizing-api-calls/#implicit-grant)

## Postman collection

You can find all the requests from the Reports API v3.3 in Postman. In our collection, we use [environment variables](https://learning.getpostman.com/docs/postman/environments_and_globals/manage_environments/) for the API version and the access token. Importing the collection from the link below downloads the **LiveChat Web API** environment as well. Remember to replace sample tokens with your own.

[![Run in Postman](https://run.pstmn.io/button.svg)](https://app.getpostman.com/run-collection/15474443-dba819c4-f2c0-4e51-9173-34ed18380afb?action=collection%2Ffork&collection-url=entityId%3D15474443-dba819c4-f2c0-4e51-9173-34ed18380afb%26entityType%3Dcollection%26workspaceId%3D5e6fb31b-587b-4258-b215-4dccaae38a38#?env%5B%5Bstable%5D%20LiveChat%20APIs%5D=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)

# Methods

| The API endpoint                                               |
| -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.3/reports/<resource>/<action>` |

| Header          | Value            | Required | Notes                                               |
| --------------- | ---------------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `Authorization` | `Bearer <token>` | Yes      | Your access token                                   |
| `X-API-Version` | `3.3`            | No       | You can specify the API version in the URL instead. |

## Available methods

|           |                                                                                                       |
| --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Chats** | [`agents_chatting_duration`](#agents-chatting-duration) [`tags`](#tags) [`total_chats`](#total-chats) |

## Chats

<Section>
<Text>

### Agents Chatting Duration

Shows the average chatting duration of agents within a license.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                                           |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.3/reports/chats/agents_chatting_duration` |
| **HTTP method**     | GET                                                                       |
| **Required scopes** | -                                                                         |

#### Request

| Query String          | Required | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| --------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `to`                  | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format, which also contains a timezone. This timezone will be used if no `timezone` is provided.                                                                                                     |
| `from`                | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format, which also contains a timezone. This timezone will be used if no `timezone` is provided.                                                                                                     |
| `agents`              | no       | Agent emails separated by a comma; if not specified, returns the data for all agents within the license.                                                                                                                 |
| `groups`              | no       | Group IDs separated by a comma                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `tags`                | no       | Names of tags separated by a comma                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `customer_client_ids` | no       | Client IDs separated by a comma                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `distribution`        | no       | Possible values: `hour`, `day-hours`, `day`, `month`; defaults to `day`                                                                                                                                                  |
| `timezone`            | no       | Timezone in the [TZ format](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) (e.g. America/Phoenix). Defaults to the requester's timezone. If not present, `from` is parsed to get the requester's timezone. |
| `tagged`              | no       | Possible values: `true`, `1`, `false`, `0`                                                                                                                                                                               |

#### Response

| Field                 | Notes                                                  |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `total`               | The total number of chats in the specified date range. |
| `records`             | Contains `distribution` objects, for example, `day`.   |
| `records.day.count`   | The total number of chats `agents` had that `day`.     |
| `records.day.seconds` | The average chat duration `agents` had that `day`.     |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl "https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.3/reports/chats/agents_chatting_duration?from=2020-09-01T00:00:00%2B02:00&to=2020-09-14T23:59:59%2B02:00" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.3" json="agentsChattingDuration"/>

</Code>
</Section>

<Section>
<Text>

### Tags

Shows the distribution of tags for chats.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                       |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.3/reports/chats/tags` |
| **HTTP method**     | GET                                                   |
| **Required scopes** | -                                                     |

#### Request

| Query String   | Required | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| -------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `to`           | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format, which also contains a timezone. This timezone will be used if no `timezone` is provided.                                                                                                     |
| `from`         | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format, which also contains a timezone. This timezone will be used if no `timezone` is provided.                                                                                                     |
| `distribution` | yes      | Possible values: `hour`, `day-hours`, `day`, `month`, `year`                                                                                                                                                             |
| `timezone`     | no       | Timezone in the [TZ format](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) (e.g. America/Phoenix). Defaults to the requester's timezone. If not present, `from` is parsed to get the requester's timezone. |
| `agents`       | no       | Agent emails separated by a comma; if not specified, returns the data for all agents within the license.                                                                                                                 |
| `groups`       | no       | Group IDs separated by a comma                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `names`        | no       | The names of tags separated by a comma; when `tags=:without:`, you will get the total number of chats without tags, when `tags=:with:` you will get the total number of chats with tags.                                 |

#### Response

| Field               | Notes                                                    |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `total`             | The total number of chats in the specified date range.   |
| `records`           | Contains the `distribution` objects, for example, `day`. |
| `records.day.<tag>` | The total number of chats tagged with `<tag>`.           |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl "https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.3/reports/chats/tags?from=2020-09-01T00:00:00%2B02:00&to=2020-09-14T23:59:59%2B02:00&distribution=day" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.3" json="tags"/>

</Code>
</Section>

<Section>
<Text>

### Total Chats

Shows how many chats occurred during the specified period.

#### Specifics

|                     |                                                              |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Method URL**      | `https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.3/reports/chats/total_chats` |
| **HTTP method**     | GET                                                          |
| **Required scopes** | -                                                            |

#### Request

| Query String          | Required | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| --------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `to`                  | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format, which also contains a timezone. This timezone will be used if no `timezone` is provided.                                                                                                     |
| `from`                | yes      | Date in the RFC3339 format, which also contains a timezone. This timezone will be used if no `timezone` is provided.                                                                                                     |
| `distribution`        | no       | Possible values: `hour`, `day-hours`, `day`, `month`; defaults to `day`                                                                                                                                                  |
| `timezone`            | no       | Timezone in the [TZ format](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) (e.g. America/Phoenix). Defaults to the requester's timezone. If not present, `from` is parsed to get the requester's timezone. |
| `agents`              | no       | Agent emails separated by a comma; if not specified, returns the data for all agents within the license.                                                                                                                 |
| `agent_assigned`      | no       | Possible values: `true`, `1`, `false`, `0`                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `groups`              | no       | Group IDs separated by a comma                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `customer_client_ids` | no       | Client IDs separated by a comma                                                                                                                                                                                          |  |
| `tags`                | no       | Names of tags separated by a comma                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `tagged`              | no       | Possible values: `true`, `1`, `false`, `0`                                                                                                                                                                               |

#### Response

| Field                    | Notes                                                    |
| ------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `total`                  | The total number of chats in the specified date range.   |
| `records`                | Contains the `distribution` objects, for example, `day`. |
| `records.day.total`      | The total number of chats that `day`.                    |
| `records.day.continuous` | The number of continuous chats that `day`.               |

</Text>
<Code>
<CodeSample path={'REQUEST'}>
<Sample>

```shell
curl "https://api.livechatinc.com/v3.3/reports/chats/total_chats?from=2020-09-01T00:00:00%2B02:00&to=2020-09-14T23:59:59%2B02:00" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>'
```

</Sample>
</CodeSample>

<CodeResponse type="reports" version="v3.3" json="totalChats"/>

</Code>
</Section>

# Contact us

If you found a bug or a typo, you can create an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/livechat/livechat-public-docs/). In case of any questions or feedback, don't hesitate to contact us at [developers@livechat.com](mailto:developers@livechat.com)
