src/pages/data-reporting/index.mdx, before:

---
weight: 1
category: "data-reporting"
title: "Reporting Overview"
tagline: "Make an effecive use of data you get from Reports."
desc: "The LiveChat Platform allows you to extract data from Reports. Based on that, you can create custom reports and perform in-depth analyses."
versionGroup: "data-reporting"
---

import { openChatWindow } from "utils/index";

# Introduction

The LiveChat Platform lets you extract data from all the [Reports](https://www.livechat.com/help/reporting-options-available-in-livechat/) available in LiveChat. You can use this data to create your own reports, build custom dashboards or set up custom email reporting.

## Use cases

There are a number of ways to leverage the Reports API:

- export data to Excel ([see blogpost](https://developers.livechat.com/blog/how-to-get-livechat-api-data-with-microsoft-excel-or-power-bi/)) or 3rd-party analytics and BI tools,
- create dashboards for teams ([like this one](https://dashboard.livechatinc.com/)),
- set up alerting and notifications for specific metrics,
- schedule custom email reporting.

## API versioning

The Reports API goes through several stages in its lifecycle.

|                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **dev preview** | It gives a preview of the features that are currently in development. **It's subject to change and comes with limited access**. Contact us at developers@livechat.com or <a href="#open-chat" onClick={openChatWindow}>ask on the chat</a> to get access. Lasts for ~6-7 months. |
| **stable**      | It has a closed feature set and is publicly available. It receives all bug fixes. Lasts for ~6-7 months.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| **legacy**      | We're gradually dropping support for this version. It receives only critical and security bug fixes. Lasts for ~1-1.5 year. Responses contain the `Legacy` header that specifies when this stage ends (in the `YYYY-MM-DD` format).                                              |
| **deprecated**  | It receives only critical and security bug fixes. Lasts for 6 months before it's decommissioned. Responses contain the `Deprecation` header that specifies when this stage ends (in the `YYYY-MM-DD` format).                                                                    |

<img
  alt="Reporting API lifecycle"
  src="/images/messaging/livechat-api-versioning.png"
  width="800px"
  height="149px"
/>

### Current versioning

Refer to this chart to learn the details about our current APIs lifecycle.

<img
  alt="Current API lifecycle"
  src="/images/messaging/livechat-api-lifecycle-current.png"
  width="640px"
  height="197px"
/>

## New Reports API

<SectionLink to={"/data-reporting/reports-api"}>
  Reports API Reference v3
</SectionLink>

The Reports API v3 introduces new Chat and Tag reports.

## Old Reports API

<SectionLink to={"/data-reporting/reports-api/v2.0"}>
  Reports API Reference v2
</SectionLink>

Extract data on chats, greetings, tickets, and other LiveChat key functionalities.

Commit message:

add note about year quarters

src/pages/data-reporting/index.mdx, after:

---
weight: 1
category: "data-reporting"
title: "Reporting Overview"
tagline: "Make an effecive use of data you get from Reports."
desc: "The LiveChat Platform allows you to extract data from Reports. Based on that, you can create custom reports and perform in-depth analyses."
versionGroup: "data-reporting"
---

import { openChatWindow } from "utils/index";

# Introduction

The LiveChat Platform lets you extract data from all the [Reports](https://www.livechat.com/help/reporting-options-available-in-livechat/) available in LiveChat. You can use this data to create your own reports, build custom dashboards or set up custom email reporting.

## Use cases

There are a number of ways to leverage the Reports API:

- export data to Excel ([see blogpost](https://developers.livechat.com/blog/how-to-get-livechat-api-data-with-microsoft-excel-or-power-bi/)) or 3rd-party analytics and BI tools,
- create dashboards for teams ([like this one](https://dashboard.livechatinc.com/)),
- set up alerting and notifications for specific metrics,
- schedule custom email reporting.

## API versioning

The Reports API goes through several stages in its lifecycle.

|                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **dev preview** | It gives a preview of the features that are currently in development. **It's subject to change and comes with limited access**. Contact us at developers@livechat.com or <a href="#open-chat" onClick={openChatWindow}>ask on the chat</a> to get access. Lasts for ~6-7 months. |
| **stable**      | It has a closed feature set and is publicly available. It receives all bug fixes. Lasts for ~6-7 months.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| **legacy**      | We're gradually dropping support for this version. It receives only critical and security bug fixes. Lasts for ~1-1.5 year. Responses contain the `Legacy` header that specifies when this stage ends (in the `YYYY-MM-DD` format).                                              |
| **deprecated**  | It receives only critical and security bug fixes. Lasts for 6 months before it's decommissioned. Responses contain the `Deprecation` header that specifies when this stage ends (in the `YYYY-MM-DD` format).                                                                    |

<img
  alt="Reporting API lifecycle"
  src="/images/messaging/livechat-api-versioning.png"
  width="800px"
  height="149px"
/>

### Current versioning

Refer to this chart to learn the details about our current APIs lifecycle. One block on the chart represents a quarter of a year.

<img
  alt="Current API lifecycle"
  src="/images/messaging/livechat-api-lifecycle-current.png"
  width="640px"
  height="197px"
/>

## New Reports API

<SectionLink to={"/data-reporting/reports-api"}>
  Reports API Reference v3
</SectionLink>

The Reports API v3 introduces new Chat and Tag reports.

## Old Reports API

<SectionLink to={"/data-reporting/reports-api/v2.0"}>
  Reports API Reference v2
</SectionLink>

Extract data on chats, greetings, tickets, and other LiveChat key functionalities.
