src/pages/messaging/apple-messages-for-business/index.mdx, before:

---
weight: 60
category: "messaging"
subcategory: "apple-messages-for-business"
title: "Apple Messages for Business integration API"
tagline: "Apple Messages for Business integration API"
desc: "Learn how implement services for Authorization, Apple Pay, Custom Extensions, as well as List and Date Pickers."
hidden: true
---

[**Messages for Business**](https://register.apple.com/resources/messages/messaging-documentation/) is a service that allows your organization to communicate directly with your customers through your **Messaging Service Provider (MSP)** using the Messages app. The Apple Messages for Business integration creates the communication channel between **Apple's Messages app** and **LiveChat**. In such a case, **LiveChat** plays the role of a **MSP**.

This article documents how to implement services for **authorization**, **Apple Pay**, **custom extensions**, as well as **list pickers**, **date pickers** and **quick replies**.

## Available methods

### Send List Picker

Let the customer choose from a list of items by sending a list picker. More about <a href="https://register.apple.com/resources/messages/msp-rest-api/type-interactive#list-picker-message" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">**list pickers...**</a>

**Method URL:** `https://apple-csp.livechatinc.com/list-picker`

**Required header:** `Authorization` with the agent's token

| Request object          | Required | Data type | Notes                                           |
| ----------------------- | -------- | --------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `chatId`                | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an ABC chat                               |
| `threadId`              | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an ABC thread                             |
| `title`                 | Yes      | `string`  | Title of a list picker message                  |
| `subtitle`              | No       | `string`  | Subtitle of a list picker message               |
| `image`                 | No       | `string`  | URL of a list picker image                      |
| `groups`                | Yes      | `array`   | Array of groups in a list picker                |
| `groups.title`          | Yes      | `string`  | Title of a group                                |
| `groups.multipleChoice` | Yes      | `bool`    | Should a user select multiple items in a group? |
| `groups.items`          | Yes      | `array`   | Array of items in a group                       |
| `groups.items.id`       | Yes      | `string`  | Unique ID of an item                            |
| `groups.items.image`    | No       | `string`  | URL of an item image                            |
| `groups.items.title`    | Yes      | `string`  | Title of an item                                |
| `groups.items.subtitle` | No       | `string`  | Subtitle of an item                             |

### Send Date Picker

Let the customer choose a date by sending a date picker. More about <a href="https://register.apple.com/resources/messages/msp-rest-api/type-interactive#time-picker-message" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">**date pickers...**</a>

**Method URL:** `https://apple-csp.livechatinc.com/date-picker`

**Required header:** `Authorization` with the agent's token

| Request object         | Required | Data type | Notes                                             |
| ---------------------- | -------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `chatId`               | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an ABC chat                                 |
| `threadId`             | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an ABC thread                               |
| `title`                | Yes      | `string`  | Title of a date picker message                    |
| `subtitle`             | No       | `string`  | Subtitle of a date picker message                 |
| `image`                | No       | `string`  | URL of a date picker image                        |
| `timeSlots`            | Yes      | `array`   | Array of time slots                               |
| `timeSlots.identifier` | Yes      | `string`  | Unique ID of a time slot                          |
| `timeSlots.duration`   | Yes      | `int`     | Duration of a time slot                           |
| `timeSlots.startTime`  | Yes      | `string`  | Start time in the format: `2020-12-15T17:00+0000` |

### Send Quick Replies

Let the customer choose from a list of replies by sending quick replies. More about <a href="https://register.apple.com/resources/messages/msp-rest-api/type-interactive#quick-reply-message-beta" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">**quick replies...**</a>

**Method URL:** `https://apple-csp.livechatinc.com/quick-replies`

**Required header:** `Authorization` with the agent's token

| Request object       | Required | Data type | Notes                                             |
| -------------------- | -------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `chatId`             | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an ABC chat                                 |
| `threadId`           | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an ABC thread                               |
| `message`            | Yes      | `string`  | A summary text that will be used for notification |
| `replies`            | Yes      | `array`   | Array of replies                                  |
| `replies.identifier` | Yes      | `string`  | Unique ID of a reply                              |
| `replies.message`    | Yes      | `string`  | Message of the quick reply item                   |

### Send Apple Pay Payment

A request for payment, which includes information about payment processing capabilities, the payment amount, and shipping information. More about <a href="https://register.apple.com/resources/messages/msp-rest-api/type-interactive#apple-pay-message" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">**Apple Pay payments...**</a>

**Method URL:** `https://apple-csp.livechatinc.com/payment`

**Required header:** `Authorization` with the agent's token

| Request object                                         | Required | Data type  | Notes                             |
| ------------------------------------------------------ | -------- | ---------- | --------------------------------- |
| `chatId`                                               | Yes      | `string`   | ID of an ABC chat                 |
| `threadId`                                             | Yes      | `string`   | ID of an ABC thread               |
| `title`                                                | Yes      | `string`   | Title of a payment message        |
| `subtitle`                                             | No       | `string`   | Subtitle of a payment message     |
| `image`                                                | No       | `string`   | URL of a payment image            |
| `payment`                                              | Yes      | `object`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.items`                         | Yes      | `array`    |
| `payment.paymentRequest.items.label`                   | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.items.amount`                  | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.items.type`                    | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.total`                         | Yes      | `object`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.total.label`                   | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.total.amount`                  | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.total.type`                    | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.applePay`                      | Yes      | `object`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.applePay.merchantIdentifier`   | Yes      | `object`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.applePay.supportedNetworks`    | Yes      | `object`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.applePay.merchantCapabilities` | Yes      | `object`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.merchantName`                  | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.countryCode`                   | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.currencyCode`                  | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.merchantName`                  | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.requiredBillingContactFields`  | Yes      | `[]string` |
| `payment.paymentRequest.requiredShippingContactFields` | Yes      | `[]string` |
| `payment.merchantSession`                              | Yes      | `string`   | MerchantSession encoded as `JSON` |
| `payment.endpoints`                                    | Yes      | `object`   |
| `payment.endpoints.paymentGatewayUrl`                  | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.endpoints.fallbackUrl`                        | No       | `string`   |
| `payment.endpoints.orderTrackingUrl`                   | No       | `string`   |
| `payment.endpoints.paymentMethodUpdateUrl`             | No       | `string`   |
| `payment.endpoints.shippingContactUpdateUrl`           | No       | `string`   |
| `payment.endpoints.shippingMethodUpdateUrl`            | No       | `string`   |

### Send Authentication request

Pass authentication data between LiveChat and the customer's device using OAuth. More about the <a href="https://register.apple.com/resources/messages/msp-rest-api/type-interactive#authentication-message" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">**authentication message...**</a>

**Method URL:** `https://apple-csp.livechatinc.com/authenticate`

**Required header:** `Authorization` with the agent's token

| Request object                              | Required | Data type | Notes                                 |
| ------------------------------------------- | -------- | --------- | ------------------------------------- |
| `chatId`                                    | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an ABC chat                     |
| `threadId`                                  | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an ABC thread                   |
| `title`                                     | Yes      | `string`  | Title of an authentication message    |
| `subtitle`                                  | No       | `string`  | Subtitle of an authentication message |
| `authenticate`                              | Yes      | `object`  |
| `authenticate.oauth2`                       | Yes      | `object`  |
| `authenticate.oauth2.responseType`          | Yes      | `string`  |
| `authenticate.oauth2.scope`                 | Yes      | `string`  |
| `authenticate.oauth2.clientSecret`          | Yes      | `string`  |
| `authenticate.oauth2.state`                 | Yes      | `string`  |
| `authenticate.oauth2.responseEncryptionKey` | Yes      | `string`  |

### Invoke Custom Extension

Invoke a custom extension of an app. More about <a href="https://register.apple.com/resources/messages/msp-rest-api/type-interactive#imessage-app" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">**custom app extensions...**</a>

**Method URL:** `https://apple-csp.livechatinc.com/custom-interactive`

**Required header:** `Authorization` with the agent's token

| Request object                                 | Required | Data type | Notes               |
| ---------------------------------------------- | -------- | --------- | ------------------- |
| `chatId`                                       | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an ABC chat   |
| `threadId`                                     | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an ABC thread |
| `interactiveData`                              | Yes      | `object`  |
| `interactiveData.appId`                        | Yes      | `string`  |
| `interactiveData.appName`                      | Yes      | `string`  |
| `interactiveData.receiveMessage`               | Yes      | `object`  |
| `interactiveData.receiveMessage.title`         | Yes      | `object`  |
| `interactiveData.receiveMessage.subtitle`      | Yes      | `object`  |
| `interactiveData.receiveMessage.useLiveLayout` | Yes      | `bool`    |

## Resources

- [Apple Business Register](https://register.apple.com/)
- [Messages for Business REST API](https://register.apple.com/resources/messages/msp-rest-api/)

Commit message:

Rename ABC to Apple Messages

src/pages/messaging/apple-messages-for-business/index.mdx, after:

---
weight: 60
category: "messaging"
subcategory: "apple-messages-for-business"
title: "Apple Messages for Business integration API"
tagline: "Apple Messages for Business integration API"
desc: "Learn how implement services for Authorization, Apple Pay, Custom Extensions, as well as List and Date Pickers."
hidden: true
---

[**Messages for Business**](https://register.apple.com/resources/messages/messaging-documentation/) is a service that allows your organization to communicate directly with your customers through your **Messaging Service Provider (MSP)** using the Messages app. The Apple Messages for Business integration creates the communication channel between **Apple's Messages app** and **LiveChat**. In such a case, **LiveChat** plays the role of a **MSP**.

This article documents how to implement services for **authorization**, **Apple Pay**, **custom extensions**, as well as **list pickers**, **date pickers** and **quick replies**.

## Available methods

### Send List Picker

Let the customer choose from a list of items by sending a list picker. More about <a href="https://register.apple.com/resources/messages/msp-rest-api/type-interactive#list-picker-message" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">**list pickers...**</a>

**Method URL:** `https://apple-csp.livechatinc.com/list-picker`

**Required header:** `Authorization` with the agent's token

| Request object          | Required | Data type | Notes                                           |
| ----------------------- | -------- | --------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `chatId`                | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an Apple Messages chat                    |
| `threadId`              | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an Apple Messages thread                  |
| `title`                 | Yes      | `string`  | Title of a list picker message                  |
| `subtitle`              | No       | `string`  | Subtitle of a list picker message               |
| `image`                 | No       | `string`  | URL of a list picker image                      |
| `groups`                | Yes      | `array`   | Array of groups in a list picker                |
| `groups.title`          | Yes      | `string`  | Title of a group                                |
| `groups.multipleChoice` | Yes      | `bool`    | Should a user select multiple items in a group? |
| `groups.items`          | Yes      | `array`   | Array of items in a group                       |
| `groups.items.id`       | Yes      | `string`  | Unique ID of an item                            |
| `groups.items.image`    | No       | `string`  | URL of an item image                            |
| `groups.items.title`    | Yes      | `string`  | Title of an item                                |
| `groups.items.subtitle` | No       | `string`  | Subtitle of an item                             |

### Send Date Picker

Let the customer choose a date by sending a date picker. More about <a href="https://register.apple.com/resources/messages/msp-rest-api/type-interactive#time-picker-message" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">**date pickers...**</a>

**Method URL:** `https://apple-csp.livechatinc.com/date-picker`

**Required header:** `Authorization` with the agent's token

| Request object         | Required | Data type | Notes                                             |
| ---------------------- | -------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `chatId`               | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an Apple Messages chat                      |
| `threadId`             | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an Apple Messages thread                    |
| `title`                | Yes      | `string`  | Title of a date picker message                    |
| `subtitle`             | No       | `string`  | Subtitle of a date picker message                 |
| `image`                | No       | `string`  | URL of a date picker image                        |
| `timeSlots`            | Yes      | `array`   | Array of time slots                               |
| `timeSlots.identifier` | Yes      | `string`  | Unique ID of a time slot                          |
| `timeSlots.duration`   | Yes      | `int`     | Duration of a time slot                           |
| `timeSlots.startTime`  | Yes      | `string`  | Start time in the format: `2020-12-15T17:00+0000` |

### Send Quick Replies

Let the customer choose from a list of replies by sending quick replies. More about <a href="https://register.apple.com/resources/messages/msp-rest-api/type-interactive#quick-reply-message-beta" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">**quick replies...**</a>

**Method URL:** `https://apple-csp.livechatinc.com/quick-replies`

**Required header:** `Authorization` with the agent's token

| Request object       | Required | Data type | Notes                                             |
| -------------------- | -------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `chatId`             | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an Apple Messages chat                      |
| `threadId`           | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an Apple Messages thread                    |
| `message`            | Yes      | `string`  | A summary text that will be used for notification |
| `replies`            | Yes      | `array`   | Array of replies                                  |
| `replies.identifier` | Yes      | `string`  | Unique ID of a reply                              |
| `replies.message`    | Yes      | `string`  | Message of the quick reply item                   |

### Send Apple Pay Payment

A request for payment, which includes information about payment processing capabilities, the payment amount, and shipping information. More about <a href="https://register.apple.com/resources/messages/msp-rest-api/type-interactive#apple-pay-message" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">**Apple Pay payments...**</a>

**Method URL:** `https://apple-csp.livechatinc.com/payment`

**Required header:** `Authorization` with the agent's token

| Request object                                         | Required | Data type  | Notes                             |
| ------------------------------------------------------ | -------- | ---------- | --------------------------------- |
| `chatId`                                               | Yes      | `string`   | ID of an Apple Messages chat      |
| `threadId`                                             | Yes      | `string`   | ID of an Apple Messages thread    |
| `title`                                                | Yes      | `string`   | Title of a payment message        |
| `subtitle`                                             | No       | `string`   | Subtitle of a payment message     |
| `image`                                                | No       | `string`   | URL of a payment image            |
| `payment`                                              | Yes      | `object`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.items`                         | Yes      | `array`    |
| `payment.paymentRequest.items.label`                   | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.items.amount`                  | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.items.type`                    | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.total`                         | Yes      | `object`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.total.label`                   | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.total.amount`                  | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.total.type`                    | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.applePay`                      | Yes      | `object`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.applePay.merchantIdentifier`   | Yes      | `object`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.applePay.supportedNetworks`    | Yes      | `object`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.applePay.merchantCapabilities` | Yes      | `object`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.merchantName`                  | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.countryCode`                   | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.currencyCode`                  | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.merchantName`                  | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.paymentRequest.requiredBillingContactFields`  | Yes      | `[]string` |
| `payment.paymentRequest.requiredShippingContactFields` | Yes      | `[]string` |
| `payment.merchantSession`                              | Yes      | `string`   | MerchantSession encoded as `JSON` |
| `payment.endpoints`                                    | Yes      | `object`   |
| `payment.endpoints.paymentGatewayUrl`                  | Yes      | `string`   |
| `payment.endpoints.fallbackUrl`                        | No       | `string`   |
| `payment.endpoints.orderTrackingUrl`                   | No       | `string`   |
| `payment.endpoints.paymentMethodUpdateUrl`             | No       | `string`   |
| `payment.endpoints.shippingContactUpdateUrl`           | No       | `string`   |
| `payment.endpoints.shippingMethodUpdateUrl`            | No       | `string`   |

### Send Authentication request

Pass authentication data between LiveChat and the customer's device using OAuth. More about the <a href="https://register.apple.com/resources/messages/msp-rest-api/type-interactive#authentication-message" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">**authentication message...**</a>

**Method URL:** `https://apple-csp.livechatinc.com/authenticate`

**Required header:** `Authorization` with the agent's token

| Request object                              | Required | Data type | Notes                                 |
| ------------------------------------------- | -------- | --------- | ------------------------------------- |
| `chatId`                                    | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an Apple Messages chat          |
| `threadId`                                  | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an Apple Messages thread        |
| `title`                                     | Yes      | `string`  | Title of an authentication message    |
| `subtitle`                                  | No       | `string`  | Subtitle of an authentication message |
| `authenticate`                              | Yes      | `object`  |
| `authenticate.oauth2`                       | Yes      | `object`  |
| `authenticate.oauth2.responseType`          | Yes      | `string`  |
| `authenticate.oauth2.scope`                 | Yes      | `string`  |
| `authenticate.oauth2.clientSecret`          | Yes      | `string`  |
| `authenticate.oauth2.state`                 | Yes      | `string`  |
| `authenticate.oauth2.responseEncryptionKey` | Yes      | `string`  |

### Invoke Custom Extension

Invoke a custom extension of an app. More about <a href="https://register.apple.com/resources/messages/msp-rest-api/type-interactive#imessage-app" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">**custom app extensions...**</a>

**Method URL:** `https://apple-csp.livechatinc.com/custom-interactive`

**Required header:** `Authorization` with the agent's token

| Request object                                 | Required | Data type | Notes                          |
| ---------------------------------------------- | -------- | --------- | ------------------------------ |
| `chatId`                                       | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an Apple Messages chat   |
| `threadId`                                     | Yes      | `string`  | ID of an Apple Messages thread |
| `interactiveData`                              | Yes      | `object`  |
| `interactiveData.appId`                        | Yes      | `string`  |
| `interactiveData.appName`                      | Yes      | `string`  |
| `interactiveData.receiveMessage`               | Yes      | `object`  |
| `interactiveData.receiveMessage.title`         | Yes      | `object`  |
| `interactiveData.receiveMessage.subtitle`      | Yes      | `object`  |
| `interactiveData.receiveMessage.useLiveLayout` | Yes      | `bool`    |

## Resources

- [Apple Business Register](https://register.apple.com/)
- [Messages for Business REST API](https://register.apple.com/resources/messages/msp-rest-api/)
