src/pages/management/index.mdx, before:

---
weight: 1
category: "management"
title: "Management Overview"
tagline: "Resource management via dedicated APIs"
desc: "There are dedicated APIs for the resource management. Use the Configuration API to set up bot agents, webhooks, and properties."
---

import { openChatWindow } from "utils/index";

# Introduction

The Configuration API allows you to manage resources such as **agents, auto access, bots, groups, properties, and webhooks**. You can use it to build advanced integrations as well as alter the configuration of your resources directly via the API.

## Use cases

Here are some of the most common use cases of the Configuration API:

- Build integrations that connect LiveChat with other services via **webhooks**. React to events happening in the chat.
- Create automation solutions with the use of **bots**. Connect LiveChat with various AI solutions.
- Use **properties** to store information about chats, threads, or events.

# API versioning

The LiveChat Configuration API goes through several stages in its lifecycle.

|                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **dev preview** | It gives a preview of the features that are currently in development. **It's subject to change and comes with limited access**. Contact us at developers@livechat.com or <a href="#open-chat" onClick={openChatWindow}>ask on the chat</a> to get access. Lasts for ~6-7 months. |
| **stable**      | It has a closed feature set and is publicly available. It receives all bug fixes. Lasts for ~6-7 months.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| **legacy**      | We're gradually dropping support for this version. It receives only critical and security bug fixes. Lasts for ~1-1.5 years. Responses contain the `Legacy` header that specifies when this stage ends (in the `YYYY-MM-DD` format).                                             |
| **deprecated**  | It receives only critical and security bug fixes. Lasts for 6 months before it's decommissioned. Responses contain the `Deprecation` header that specifies when this stage ends (in the `YYYY-MM-DD` format).                                                                    |

<img
  alt="Configuration API lifecycle"
  src="/images/messaging/livechat-api-versioning.png"
  width="800px"
  height="149px"
/>

## Current versioning

Refer to this chart to learn the details about our current APIs lifecycle.

<img
  alt="Current API lifecycle"
  src="/images/messaging/livechat-api-lifecycle-current.png"
  width="640px"
  height="197px"
/>

<Warning>

Currently, Configuration API v2 and v3 cover different resources. However, if you're still using v2, we encourage you to switch to v3 as more and more resources are being migrated to v3.

</Warning>

# Resources

## Agents

An agent is a type of user who communicates with customers. You can see the sample agent data structure in the [response of Get Agent](/management/configuration-api/#get-agent). The Configuration API allows for multiple agent-related actions, including creating, updating, deleting, and suspending agents.

<SectionLink href={"/management/configuration-api/#agents"}>
  See agent methods
</SectionLink>

## Auto access

Auto access is a functionality that allows for assigning customers to dedicated groups based on the URL or the customer's geolocation. When a customer who matches some pre-defined auto access rules starts a chat, the chat is automatically routed to the specific group. You can use auto access, for example, to provide multi-language support with each group of agents being responsible for communication in a different language.

<SectionLink href={"/management/configuration-api/#auto-access"}>
  See auto access methods
</SectionLink>

## Bots

Bots are similar to regular agents. The main difference between them is that bots have a greater potental for automation, for example, they can listen for and react to incoming webhooks and pushes.

Bots are created and managed via the Configuration API. Just as regualar agents, bots can call Agent Chat API by the Web or RTM API.

Bots are authorized with the use of the [agent token](/authorization/authorizing-api-calls/#agent-authorization-flows). Using bots requires sending the `X-Author-Id` header for the Web API and the `author_id` property for the RTM API.

To change a bot's status (`accepting_chats`, `not_accepting_chats`, or `offline`), use the [Set Routing Status](/messaging/agent-chat-api/#set-routing-status) method from the Agent Chat API.

<SectionLink href={"/management/configuration-api/#bots"}>
  See bot methods
</SectionLink>

## Groups

Groups let you organize your work by creating teams with agent and bot members. You can use groups to do configuration based on shared settings (language, working hours, department) and to separate chat routing.

<SectionLink href={"/management/configuration-api/#groups"}>
  See group methods
</SectionLink>

## Properties

Properties are key-value storages. Depending on the API version, they can be set within the following locations: a chat, a thread, an event, a group, and a license. Property configuration is owned by a Client Id (integration), not by license (v3.3+). Properties can be public or private.

- <SectionLink href={"/management/configuration-api/#properties"}>Learn more about properties</SectionLink>

- <SectionLink href={"/management/configuration-api/#methods-4"}>See property methods</SectionLink>

## Webhooks

In a nutshell, actions invoked by the use of Messaging APIs or the Configuration API result in events. You can be notified about those events with webhooks. LiveChat provides a number of webhooks, which you can register and manage via the Configuration API. Just like properties, webhooks are registered per Client Id (integration), not per license (v3.3+).

We can distinguish two types of webhooks:

- license webhooks
- bot webhooks

Once **license webhooks** are set up, you will always receive them. Read our tutorial on <a href="https://developers.livechat.com/updates/setting-up-webhooks-with-livechat-api/" target="_blank">how to configure LiveChat license webhooks via the Configuration API</a>.

**Bot webhooks** are strongly coupled with the bot's status (`accepting chats`, `not accepting chats`, `offline`). If the bot is offline, webhooks won't be received.

- <SectionLink href={"/management/configuration-api/#webhooks"}>Learn more about webhooks</SectionLink>

- <SectionLink href={"/management/webhooks/#available-webhooks"}>See available webhooks</SectionLink>

- <SectionLink href={"/management/configuration-api/#methods-5"}>See webhook methods</SectionLink>

## Other

To manage other product-related resources, such as canned responses, goals, greetings, tags, tickets, visitors, see the Configuration API v2 (the old API reference). We highly encourage you to migrate to the current stable version of the Configuration API.

<SectionLink href={"/management/configuration-api/v2.0/"}>
  See the old API reference
</SectionLink>

Commit message:

add note about year quarters

src/pages/management/index.mdx, after:

---
weight: 1
category: "management"
title: "Management Overview"
tagline: "Resource management via dedicated APIs"
desc: "There are dedicated APIs for the resource management. Use the Configuration API to set up bot agents, webhooks, and properties."
---

import { openChatWindow } from "utils/index";

# Introduction

The Configuration API allows you to manage resources such as **agents, auto access, bots, groups, properties, and webhooks**. You can use it to build advanced integrations as well as alter the configuration of your resources directly via the API.

## Use cases

Here are some of the most common use cases of the Configuration API:

- Build integrations that connect LiveChat with other services via **webhooks**. React to events happening in the chat.
- Create automation solutions with the use of **bots**. Connect LiveChat with various AI solutions.
- Use **properties** to store information about chats, threads, or events.

# API versioning

The LiveChat Configuration API goes through several stages in its lifecycle.

|                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **dev preview** | It gives a preview of the features that are currently in development. **It's subject to change and comes with limited access**. Contact us at developers@livechat.com or <a href="#open-chat" onClick={openChatWindow}>ask on the chat</a> to get access. Lasts for ~6-7 months. |
| **stable**      | It has a closed feature set and is publicly available. It receives all bug fixes. Lasts for ~6-7 months.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| **legacy**      | We're gradually dropping support for this version. It receives only critical and security bug fixes. Lasts for ~1-1.5 years. Responses contain the `Legacy` header that specifies when this stage ends (in the `YYYY-MM-DD` format).                                             |
| **deprecated**  | It receives only critical and security bug fixes. Lasts for 6 months before it's decommissioned. Responses contain the `Deprecation` header that specifies when this stage ends (in the `YYYY-MM-DD` format).                                                                    |

<img
  alt="Configuration API lifecycle"
  src="/images/messaging/livechat-api-versioning.png"
  width="800px"
  height="149px"
/>

## Current versioning

Refer to this chart to learn the details about our current APIs lifecycle. One block on the chart represents a quarter of a year.

<img
  alt="Current API lifecycle"
  src="/images/messaging/livechat-api-lifecycle-current.png"
  width="640px"
  height="197px"
/>

<Warning>

Currently, Configuration API v2 and v3 cover different resources. However, if you're still using v2, we encourage you to switch to v3 as more and more resources are being migrated to v3.

</Warning>

# Resources

## Agents

An agent is a type of user who communicates with customers. You can see the sample agent data structure in the [response of Get Agent](/management/configuration-api/#get-agent). The Configuration API allows for multiple agent-related actions, including creating, updating, deleting, and suspending agents.

<SectionLink href={"/management/configuration-api/#agents"}>
  See agent methods
</SectionLink>

## Auto access

Auto access is a functionality that allows for assigning customers to dedicated groups based on the URL or the customer's geolocation. When a customer who matches some pre-defined auto access rules starts a chat, the chat is automatically routed to the specific group. You can use auto access, for example, to provide multi-language support with each group of agents being responsible for communication in a different language.

<SectionLink href={"/management/configuration-api/#auto-access"}>
  See auto access methods
</SectionLink>

## Bots

Bots are similar to regular agents. The main difference between them is that bots have a greater potental for automation, for example, they can listen for and react to incoming webhooks and pushes.

Bots are created and managed via the Configuration API. Just as regualar agents, bots can call Agent Chat API by the Web or RTM API.

Bots are authorized with the use of the [agent token](/authorization/authorizing-api-calls/#agent-authorization-flows). Using bots requires sending the `X-Author-Id` header for the Web API and the `author_id` property for the RTM API.

To change a bot's status (`accepting_chats`, `not_accepting_chats`, or `offline`), use the [Set Routing Status](/messaging/agent-chat-api/#set-routing-status) method from the Agent Chat API.

<SectionLink href={"/management/configuration-api/#bots"}>
  See bot methods
</SectionLink>

## Groups

Groups let you organize your work by creating teams with agent and bot members. You can use groups to do configuration based on shared settings (language, working hours, department) and to separate chat routing.

<SectionLink href={"/management/configuration-api/#groups"}>
  See group methods
</SectionLink>

## Properties

Properties are key-value storages. Depending on the API version, they can be set within the following locations: a chat, a thread, an event, a group, and a license. Property configuration is owned by a Client Id (integration), not by license (v3.3+). Properties can be public or private.

- <SectionLink href={"/management/configuration-api/#properties"}>Learn more about properties</SectionLink>

- <SectionLink href={"/management/configuration-api/#methods-4"}>See property methods</SectionLink>

## Webhooks

In a nutshell, actions invoked by the use of Messaging APIs or the Configuration API result in events. You can be notified about those events with webhooks. LiveChat provides a number of webhooks, which you can register and manage via the Configuration API. Just like properties, webhooks are registered per Client Id (integration), not per license (v3.3+).

We can distinguish two types of webhooks:

- license webhooks
- bot webhooks

Once **license webhooks** are set up, you will always receive them. Read our tutorial on <a href="https://developers.livechat.com/updates/setting-up-webhooks-with-livechat-api/" target="_blank">how to configure LiveChat license webhooks via the Configuration API</a>.

**Bot webhooks** are strongly coupled with the bot's status (`accepting chats`, `not accepting chats`, `offline`). If the bot is offline, webhooks won't be received.

- <SectionLink href={"/management/configuration-api/#webhooks"}>Learn more about webhooks</SectionLink>

- <SectionLink href={"/management/webhooks/#available-webhooks"}>See available webhooks</SectionLink>

- <SectionLink href={"/management/configuration-api/#methods-5"}>See webhook methods</SectionLink>

## Other

To manage other product-related resources, such as canned responses, goals, greetings, tags, tickets, visitors, see the Configuration API v2 (the old API reference). We highly encourage you to migrate to the current stable version of the Configuration API.

<SectionLink href={"/management/configuration-api/v2.0/"}>
  See the old API reference
</SectionLink>
