site/content/agent-app-widgets/agent-app-sdk.md, before:

---
weight: 40
---

# Agent App SDK

The [Agent App SDK](https://github.com/livechat/agent-app-sdk) is currently the primary way to develop your own widgets.

## Installation

You can download the SDK directly from NPM as an ES6 or CommonJS module.

> Install the SDK from NPM...

```
npm install @livechat/agent-app-sdk
```

> ... then import the ES6 module...

```js
import * as LiveChat from "@livechat/agent-app-sdk";
```

> ...or require the CommonJS.

```js
const LiveChat = require("@livechat/agent-app-sdk");
```

You can also use the UMD build of the SDK directly in the browser.

> You can also use the UMD build:

```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/@livechat/agent-app-sdk@latest/dist/agentapp.umd.min.js"></script>
<script>
  LiveChat.createDetailsWidget().then(function(widget) {
    // do something with widget
  });
</script>
```

## Usage

The usage of the SDK depends on the type of widget you want to use. Refer to the specific instructions for available widget types.

* [Details widget](#details-widgets)
* [MessageBox](#messagebox)

Nevertheless, all widgets created with the SDK share a common interface, which lets you listen to the events happening in the Agent App.

> Supposing that `widget` is a widget instance:

```js
function handleEvent(event) {
  // perform logic when event happens,
  // you can also use the data attached to the event
}

// Subscribe to event
widget.on("event", handleEvent);

// Unsubscribe from event
widget.off("event", handleEvent);
```

Each widget type offers a different set of events that you can listen to.

## Details widgets

If you want to use your app in the Details section, you should use the `createDetailsWidget` function. It returns a promise resolving to a details widget instance.

```js
import { createDetailsWidget } from "@livechat/agent-app-sdk";

createDetailsWidget().then(widget => {
  // build your logic around the widget
});
```

### Events

#### `customer_profile`

Emitted when an agent opens a conversation within Chats or Archives, or when an agents selects the customer profile in the Customers sections. The handler will get the customer profile object as an argument.

> Listen to the customer profile changes:

```js
widget.on("customer_profile", profile => {
  // read the new profile
});
```

The customer profile object will have the following shape:

| Property      | Description                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `id`          | Unique ID of a visitor                                                                                                                               |
| `name`        | Visitor name (if provided)                                                                                                                           |
| `email`       | Visitor email (if provided)                                                                                                                          |
| `chat`        | Object with two properties: `id` (unique chat id) and `groupID` (unique group id); this object may be empty when a visitor is not currently chatting |
| `source`      | String representing the source of an event; possible values: `chats`, `customers`, `archives`                                                        |
| `geolocation` | Object containing detailed information about customer's geolocation                                                                                  |

#### `customer_details_section_button_click`

Emitted when you click a button located in a section in Customer Details. The handler gets the following payload:

| Property   | Description                                              |
| ---------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `buttonId` | The `id` of the button taken from the section definition |

> React to button clicks within Customer Details widgets

```js
widget.on("customer_details_section_button_click", ({ buttonId }) => {
  // perform an action when the button is clicked
});
```

### Actions

#### Get the customer profile

If you want to access the current customer profile, you should use the `getCustomerProfile` method.

> Get the current customer profile

```js
const profile = widget.getCustomerProfile();
```

The returned profile will be an object identical to the one emitted by the `customer_profile` event. It can also be `null` if no profile was recorded.

#### Append text to the message box

You can add any text to the current chat message box by using the `putMessage` method. The method returns a promise.

> Append text to the message box

```js
widget.putMessage("this text will be appended").then(() => {
  // the text should be appended now
});
```

#### Modify Customer Details widget's state

If you configured a [Customer Details widget](#creating-a-customer-details-widget), you can modify its section state using the `modifySection` method. The method accepts the section state definition as its only parameter, and returns a promise.

You can look up the [component types](#component-types) to see how to create the state definition.

The `title` of a given section has to match the one specified in the initial state. Otherwise, the section won't change. Also, the Agent App ignores the commands without valid section definitions. Make sure that the definition you're sending is correct.

> Modify the Customer Details widget's state

```js
widget
  .modifySection({
    title: "My widget",
    components: [
      {
        type: "title",
        data: {
          value: "The title will be modified"
        }
      }
    ]
  })
  .then(() => {
    // the widget should be modified now
  });
```

## MessageBox

The `createMessageBoxWidget` function creates a widget instance to be used in MessageBox.

```js
import { createMessageBoxWidget } from ‘@livechat/agent-app-sdk’;

createMessageBoxWidget().then(widget => {
  // do something with the widget
});
```

### Actions

#### Set a message to be stored by MessageBox

`putMessage(msg: IRichMessage | string): Promise<void>`

Calling this method does not automatically send the message right away. The message is sent once an agent clicks the _Send_ button. The message accepts the regular message type as `string` or rich messages. The latter must implement the `IRichMessage` interface.

> Set a message to be stored by MessageBox

```javascript
  const richMessage = {
    template_id: "cards",
    elements: [
      {
        title: "My cat photo",
        image: "imgs/john-the-cat.jpg"
      }
    ]
  };

  widget.putMessage(richMessage);
```
#### Rich Message object format

- `custom_id`, `properties` and `elements` are optional
- `elements` may contain 1-10 element objects
- all `elements` properties are optional: `title`, `subtitle`, `image`, and `buttons`
- property `url` on `image` is required
- optional `image` properties: `name`, `content_type`, `size`, `width`, and `height`
- `buttons` may contain 1-11 button objects
- `template_id` describes how the event should be presented in an app
- `elements.buttons.postback_id` describes the action sent via the `send_rich_message_postback` method
- multiple buttons (even from different elements) can contain the same `postback_id`; calling `send_rich_message_postback` with this id will add a user to all these buttons at once.
- `elements.buttons.user_ids` describes users who sent the postback with `"toggled": true`

Commit message:

Add information about the customer profile in the message box

site/content/agent-app-widgets/agent-app-sdk.md, after:

---
weight: 40
---

# Agent App SDK

The [Agent App SDK](https://github.com/livechat/agent-app-sdk) is currently the primary way to develop your own widgets.

## Installation

You can download the SDK directly from NPM as an ES6 or CommonJS module.

> Install the SDK from NPM...

```
npm install @livechat/agent-app-sdk
```

> ... then import the ES6 module...

```js
import * as LiveChat from "@livechat/agent-app-sdk";
```

> ...or require the CommonJS.

```js
const LiveChat = require("@livechat/agent-app-sdk");
```

You can also use the UMD build of the SDK directly in the browser.

> You can also use the UMD build:

```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/@livechat/agent-app-sdk@latest/dist/agentapp.umd.min.js"></script>
<script>
  LiveChat.createDetailsWidget().then(function(widget) {
    // do something with widget
  });
</script>
```

## Usage

The usage of the SDK depends on the type of widget you want to use. Refer to the specific instructions for available widget types.

- [Details widget](#details-widgets)
- [MessageBox](#messagebox)

Nevertheless, all widgets created with the SDK share a common interface, which lets you listen to the events happening in the Agent App.

> Supposing that `widget` is a widget instance:

```js
function handleEvent(event) {
  // perform logic when event happens,
  // you can also use the data attached to the event
}

// Subscribe to event
widget.on("event", handleEvent);

// Unsubscribe from event
widget.off("event", handleEvent);
```

Each widget type offers a different set of events that you can listen to.

## Details widgets

If you want to use your app in the Details section, you should use the `createDetailsWidget` function. It returns a promise resolving to a details widget instance.

```js
import { createDetailsWidget } from "@livechat/agent-app-sdk";

createDetailsWidget().then(widget => {
  // build your logic around the widget
});
```

### Events

#### `customer_profile`

Emitted when an agent opens a conversation within Chats or Archives, or when an agents selects the customer profile in the Customers sections. The handler will get the customer profile object as an argument.

> Listen to the customer profile changes:

```js
widget.on("customer_profile", profile => {
  // read the new profile
});
```

The customer profile object will have the following shape:

| Property      | Description                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `id`          | Unique ID of a visitor                                                                                                                               |
| `name`        | Visitor name (if provided)                                                                                                                           |
| `email`       | Visitor email (if provided)                                                                                                                          |
| `chat`        | Object with two properties: `id` (unique chat id) and `groupID` (unique group id); this object may be empty when a visitor is not currently chatting |
| `source`      | String representing the source of an event; possible values: `chats`, `customers`, `archives`                                                        |
| `geolocation` | Object containing detailed information about customer's geolocation                                                                                  |

#### `customer_details_section_button_click`

Emitted when you click a button located in a section in Customer Details. The handler gets the following payload:

| Property   | Description                                              |
| ---------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `buttonId` | The `id` of the button taken from the section definition |

> React to button clicks within Customer Details widgets

```js
widget.on("customer_details_section_button_click", ({ buttonId }) => {
  // perform an action when the button is clicked
});
```

### Actions

#### Get the customer profile

If you want to access the current customer profile, you should use the `getCustomerProfile` method.

> Get the current customer profile

```js
const profile = widget.getCustomerProfile();
```

The returned profile will be an object identical to the one emitted by the `customer_profile` event. It can also be `null` if no profile was recorded.

#### Append text to the message box

You can add any text to the current chat message box by using the `putMessage` method. The method returns a promise.

> Append text to the message box

```js
widget.putMessage("this text will be appended").then(() => {
  // the text should be appended now
});
```

#### Modify Customer Details widget's state

If you configured a [Customer Details widget](#creating-a-customer-details-widget), you can modify its section state using the `modifySection` method. The method accepts the section state definition as its only parameter, and returns a promise.

You can look up the [component types](#component-types) to see how to create the state definition.

The `title` of a given section has to match the one specified in the initial state. Otherwise, the section won't change. Also, the Agent App ignores the commands without valid section definitions. Make sure that the definition you're sending is correct.

> Modify the Customer Details widget's state

```js
widget
  .modifySection({
    title: "My widget",
    components: [
      {
        type: "title",
        data: {
          value: "The title will be modified"
        }
      }
    ]
  })
  .then(() => {
    // the widget should be modified now
  });
```

## MessageBox

The `createMessageBoxWidget` function creates a widget instance to be used in MessageBox.

```js
import { createMessageBoxWidget } from ‘@livechat/agent-app-sdk’;

createMessageBoxWidget().then(widget => {
  // do something with the widget
});
```

### Events

#### `customer_profile`

Emitted after the widget has been opened in the MessageBox. The handler will get a `ICustomerProfile` object, similar to the one emitted by a [Details widget](#details-widgets).

### Actions

#### Set a message to be stored by MessageBox

`putMessage(msg: IRichMessage | string): Promise<void>`

Calling this method does not automatically send the message right away. The message is sent once an agent clicks the _Send_ button. The message accepts the regular message type as `string` or rich messages. The latter must implement the `IRichMessage` interface.

> Set a message to be stored by MessageBox

```javascript
const richMessage = {
  template_id: "cards",
  elements: [
    {
      title: "My cat photo",
      image: "imgs/john-the-cat.jpg"
    }
  ]
};

widget.putMessage(richMessage);
```

##### Rich Message object format

- `custom_id`, `properties` and `elements` are optional
- `elements` may contain 1-10 element objects
- all `elements` properties are optional: `title`, `subtitle`, `image`, and `buttons`
- property `url` on `image` is required
- optional `image` properties: `name`, `content_type`, `size`, `width`, and `height`
- `buttons` may contain 1-11 button objects
- `template_id` describes how the event should be presented in an app
- `elements.buttons.postback_id` describes the action sent via the `send_rich_message_postback` method
- multiple buttons (even from different elements) can contain the same `postback_id`; calling `send_rich_message_postback` with this id will add a user to all these buttons at once.
- `elements.buttons.user_ids` describes users who sent the postback with `"toggled": true`

#### Retrieve the customer profile

You can obtain the last recorded customer profile using the `getCustomerProfile` method. It works exactly like the method in the [Details widget](#details-widgets).

> Obtaining the customer profile in the message box

```javascript
const profile = widget.getCustomerProfile();
```
