site/content/agent-app-widgets/introduction.md, before:

---
weight: 10
---

# Introduction

Agent App Widgets are web applications loaded inside the **LiveChat Agent App** user interface. Read about their possible locations in the [Building LiveChat apps](/docs/building-apps-for-livechat/#app-locations) guide.

## Use cases

Widgets are primary elements of Agent App user interface. You can use them to:

* embed and display static content, for example, knowledge base articles, conversation prompts, or context information.
* embed your SaaS service or web app as a part of agents' workspace.
* query external services with visitor's email or LiveChat group ID (CRM, marketing automation, etc.).
* create a store with [in-app purchases](/docs/billing-api) to sell additional services or features of your app.
* query [LiveChat REST API](/docs/rest-api) to do basically anything with the visitor, agent, or chat.

## Important notes

From a technical point of view, widgets are regular web applications. For that reason, you need to have some knowledge of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to build your own widget. 

Bear in mind that widgets are front-end elements of the LiveChat Agent App. If your intention is to build a server-side app, we encourage you to check out the [REST API documentation](https://developers.livechatinc.com/docs/rest-api/).

### Feature requests

If you have any feature requests related to the Agent App Widgets, let us know! We're open for your insights and suggestions.

Commit message:

added an email and fixed a typo in Agent App Widgets

site/content/agent-app-widgets/introduction.md, after:

---
weight: 10
---

# Introduction

Agent App Widgets are web applications loaded inside the **LiveChat Agent App** user interface. Read about their possible locations in the [Building LiveChat apps](/docs/building-apps-for-livechat/#app-locations) guide.

## Use cases

Widgets are primary elements of Agent App user interface. You can use them to:

* embed and display static content, for example, knowledge base articles, conversation prompts, or context information.
* embed your SaaS service or web app as a part of agents' workspace.
* query external services with visitor's email or LiveChat group ID (CRM, marketing automation, etc.).
* create a store with [in-app purchases](/docs/billing-api) to sell additional services or features of your app.
* query [LiveChat REST API](/docs/rest-api) to do basically anything with the visitor, agent, or chat.

## Important notes

From a technical point of view, widgets are regular web applications. For that reason, you need to have some knowledge of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to build your own widget. 

Bear in mind that widgets are front-end elements of the LiveChat Agent App. If your intention is to build a server-side app, we encourage you to check out the [REST API documentation](https://developers.livechatinc.com/docs/rest-api/).

### Feature requests

If you have any feature requests related to the Agent App Widgets, let us know! We're open for your insights and suggestions. Feel free to drop us an email at [developers@livechatinc.com](mailto:developers@livechatinc.com).
