content/monetization/app-webhooks/index.mdx, before:

---
weight: 50
category: "monetization"
title: "App Webhooks"
tagline: "Pull data in and out of the Partner Program."
desc: "Getting started with the LiveChat Partners API? See our API documentation to make the best use of partnership."
---

App webhooks allow you to keep track of how often your application is installed and uninstalled.

## Bulding block configuration

If you want to be notified about your app installation and uninstallation events, configure an App Webhooks building block in {{DEVELOPER_CONSOLE_URL}}. To do that, provide a URL to your backend that will receive the webhooks.

![App Webhooks in LiveChat Developer Console](app-webhooks-livechat.png)

## Webhook reference

### `application_installed`

Informs that an application was installed.

<CodeResponse>

```json
{
  "applicationID": "aPbNnrwZg",
  "applicationName": "Google Calendar for LiveChat",
  "clientID": "9cbf3a968289727cb3cdfe83ab1d9836",
  "date": "2020-09-14T15:29:53+02:00",
  "event": "application_installed",
  "licenseID": 104130623,
  "payload": {
    "applicationID": "aPbNnrwZg"
  }
}
```

</CodeResponse>

### `application_uninstalled`

Informs that an application was uninstalled.

<CodeResponse>

```json
{
  "applicationID": "aPbNnrwZg",
  "applicationName": "Google Calendar for LiveChat",
  "clientID": "9cbf3a968289727cb3cdfe83ab1d9836",
  "date": "2020-09-14T15:29:49+02:00",
  "event": "application_uninstalled",
  "licenseID": 104130623,
  "payload": {
    "applicationID": "aPbNnrwZg"
  }
}
```

</CodeResponse>

Commit message:

Updated tagline and desc, added Questions section

content/monetization/app-webhooks/index.mdx, after:

---
weight: 50
category: "monetization"
title: "App Webhooks"
tagline: "Keep track of how often your application is installed and uninstalled with app webhooks."
desc: "App webhooks allow you to keep track of installations and uninstallations of your app. To be notified about those events, configure app webhooks in Developer Console."
---

App webhooks allow you to keep track of how often your application is installed and uninstalled.

## Bulding block configuration

If you want to be notified about your app installation and uninstallation events, configure an App Webhooks building block in {{DEVELOPER_CONSOLE_URL}}. To do that, provide a URL to your backend that will receive the webhooks.

![App Webhooks in LiveChat Developer Console](app-webhooks-livechat.png)

## Webhook reference

### `application_installed`

Informs that an application was installed.

<CodeResponse>

```json
{
  "applicationID": "aPbNnrwZg",
  "applicationName": "Google Calendar for LiveChat",
  "clientID": "9cbf3a968289727cb3cdfe83ab1d9836",
  "date": "2020-09-14T15:29:53+02:00",
  "event": "application_installed",
  "licenseID": 104130623,
  "payload": {
    "applicationID": "aPbNnrwZg"
  }
}
```

</CodeResponse>

### `application_uninstalled`

Informs that an application was uninstalled.

<CodeResponse>

```json
{
  "applicationID": "aPbNnrwZg",
  "applicationName": "Google Calendar for LiveChat",
  "clientID": "9cbf3a968289727cb3cdfe83ab1d9836",
  "date": "2020-09-14T15:29:49+02:00",
  "event": "application_uninstalled",
  "licenseID": 104130623,
  "payload": {
    "applicationID": "aPbNnrwZg"
  }
}
```

</CodeResponse>

## Questions?

We're happy to provide our support in case you need it. If you have any questions or suggestions, feel free to contact us at [developers@livechatinc.com](mailto:developers@livechatinc.com)
