content/messaging/chat-sdk/index.mdx, before:

---
weight: 40
category: "messaging"
subcategory: "chat-sdk"
title: "Chat SDK"
tagline: "Chat SDK was designed to help developers build apps in a quick and easy way."
desc: "Chat SDK eases the use of our Messaging APIs. With Chat SDK, you can create an app in just a few minutes."
---

# Introduction

**Chat SDK** was designed to help developers build apps in a quick and easy way. Under the hood, it makes use of the LiveChat [Messaging APIs](/messaging/), taking care of this part for you.

By default, Chat SDK comes with a method for sending plain text messages, which is a great starting point for further development.
Based on the method template we provide, you can easily build other methods.
Thanks to that, you have the flexibility to cover the functionalities you need for your app, for example sending rich messages.

If Messaging APIs seem too intimidating or you just want to build something real quick, **Chat SDK** is your way to go.

## Versioning

This is the version 0.1.0 of Chat SDK.

## Initial configuration

### Authorization

To use Chat SDK, you will need to provide an access token authorizing you with the [Agent Chat API](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/).

If you don't know how to get one, make sure to check out these resources:

- [Agent authorization flows](/getting-started/authorization/#agent-authorization-flows/)
- [Messaging APIs in practice](/getting-started/guides/messaging-apis-in-practice/)

### Debugging

A useful feature you can configure is the debugging mode. By default, it's turned off. But if you want to display all messages exchanged with the LiveChat API, you can turn it on
by setting `debug: true`. It may come in handy for troubleshooting as it will also display errors.

<CodeSample>

```js
const chat = new ChatSDK({ debug: true })
```

</CodeSample>

### Region

By default, you'll be connected to a data center in the United States. If you want to change the data center to Europe, specify `region: europe` in the configuration object.

<CodeSample>

```js
const chat = new ChatSDK({ region: "europe" })
```

</CodeSample>

### API version

By default, you'll make request to the current stable API version. To change it to different version, for example v3.0, set `apiVersion: 3.0` in the configuration object.

<CodeSample>

```js
const chat = new ChatSDK({ apiVersion: "3.0" })
```

</CodeSample>

## Installing Chat SDK

To install **Chat SDK**, run the following command:

<CodeSample>

``` 
npm i @livechat/chat-sdk 
```

</CodeSample>

# Data structures

The LiveChat system is based on four basic types of entities - users, chats, events, and threads. 

| Data structure | Description | Sample  |
| -------------- | ----------- | ---------------- | 
| **Chat**       | Chats consist of threads.    | [Chat](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#chats)  |
| **Thread**     | Threads are parts of a chat. They consist of events. They provide continuous chat experience. | [Thread](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#thread) |                    
| **Event**      | Users can add events to chats (for example send a message), which are then added to threads automatically. | [Events](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#events) | 
| **User**       | There are two basic types of users: Agent and Customer. Users can participate in multiple concurrent chats. | [Agent](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#agent) [Customer](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#customer) | 

All these concepts are thoroughly described in [Messaging Overview](/messaging/#key-concepts).

# Methods

### init

It handles authorization, intializes the WebSocket connection, attaches event listeners, and then logs in the Agent.

<CodeSample>

```js 
chatSDK.init({
  access_token: access_token
})
```

</CodeSample>

#### Parameters

| Parameter      | Required | Data type | Notes                                                                                                  |
| -------------- | -------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `access_token` |   Yes    | `object`  | See [Authorization](#authorization) to learn how to get an access token. Optionally, you can acquire it directly from [Accounts SDK](/getting-started/authorization/sign-in-with-livechat/#sdk-documentation) and pass it in to the `init()` method. The **Simple Agent** app uses this mechanism. |

### destroy

It clears any stored resources, removes all listeners, and disconnects from the network. After using this method you won't be able to use the destroyed SDK instance.

<CodeSample>

```js 
chatSDK.destroy() 
```

</CodeSample>

### getAgentDetails

It allows you to get information about the currently logged in Agent.

<CodeSample>

```js 
chatSDK.getAgentDetails() 
  .then(agentData => {
    // access to the agentData object
  }) 
  .catch(error => {
    // catch an error object
  })
```

</CodeSample>

### sendMessage 

It sends a plain text message.

<CodeSample>

```js
const chatId = "PJ0MRSHTDG"
const message = "Hello world"

chatSDK.sendMessage(chatId, message)
    .then(event => {
        // get event_id or handle a success scenario
    })
    .catch(error => {
        // catch an error object
    })
```

</CodeSample>

#### Parameters

| Parameter  | Required | Data type | Notes                                         |
| ---------- | -------- | --------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| chat_id    |   Yes    | `string`  | Id of chat that you want to send a message to |
| message    |   Yes    | `string`  | Message content                               |
| recipients |   No     | `string`  | Possible values: `all` (default), `agents`    |

#### Returned value 

| Value    | Data type |
| -------- | --------- |
| event_id | `string`  |


### Creating custom methods
This SDK supports the RTM transport. For that reason, make sure you use the [Agent Chat API RTM](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/) reference. 
When creating your custom methods, base on the payloads from the [Agent Chat RTM API methods](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#methods).

In the example below, we're creating a custom method that returns chat thread summaries.
As you can see in the [documentation](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#get-chat-threads-summary), only `chat_id` is required, but you can include other optional parameters in your custom method.

<CodeSample>

```js
const getChatThreadsSummary = (chatId) => chatSDK.methodFactory({
    action: "get_chat_threads_summary",
    payload: { "chat_id": chatId }
})

getChatThreadsSummary("PJ0MRSHTDG") 
    .then(data => {
        // get a list of thread summaries
    })
    .catch(error => {
        // catch an error
    })
```

</CodeSample>


### on
The **on** method subscribes to emitted events.


<CodeSample>

```js
chatSDK.on("event_name", (data) => {
    console.log(data)
})
```

</CodeSample>

Here's what you can listen for:

| Event name   | Action     | 
| ------------ | ---------- |
| `ready`      | You've been successfully logged in. You're now ready to use all API methods. |
| Pushes       | Refer to [documentation](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#pushes). |

### off
The **off** method unsubsribes from emitted events.

<CodeSample>

```js
chatSDK.off("event_name", (data) => {
    console.log(data)
})
```

</CodeSample>

### once
The **once** method subscribes to emitted events and unsubscribes right after the callback function has been called.

<CodeSample>

```js
chatSDK.once("event_name", (data) => {
      console.log(data)
  })
```

</CodeSample>

Here's what you can listen for:

| Event name   | Action     | 
| ------------ | ---------- |
| `ready`      | You've been successfully logged in. You're now ready to use all API methods. |
|  Pushes      | Refer to [documentation](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#pushes).   |

# Simple Agent

To show you **Chat SDK** in action, we've prepared a sample app, **Simple Agent** . It's primary function is to send text messages. Apart from that, it gives you access to previous conversations, 
as well as the info about the current Agent.

![LiveChat Chat SDK](livechat-chat-sdk.png)

To run the app, follow these 3 steps:

1. [Create an app](/getting-started/guides/#creating-livechat-apps) in Developer Console. You need it to get **Client Id**. Once the app is created, you can find your **Client Id** in
**Building Blocks -> Authorization** in Developer Console.

2. Paste your **Client Id** into the `.env` file in the **example** folder.

3. Run **Simple Agent** with the following commands:

```js
npm run install-example //install dependencies 

npm run start-example //start the app
```

To start a chat, log in to you LiveChat account and choose the **Preview live** option available in the **Settings** tab. You'll now be able to receive messages and respond to them from within **Simple Agent**.

It's worth mentioning that all functions invoked before logging in are queued. Once you're logged in, they are executed in the same order as they were invoked.  


# Changelog

**-- [v0.1.0] - 2019-11-27 --**

Initial alpha release.

# Questions
If you found a bug or a typo, you can let us know directly on GitHub.
In case of any questions or feedback, don't hesitate to contact us at [developers@livechatinc.com](mailto:developers@livechatinc.com). We'll be happy to help!

Commit message:

Added info about scopes and redirect URI

content/messaging/chat-sdk/index.mdx, after:

---
weight: 40
category: "messaging"
subcategory: "chat-sdk"
title: "Chat SDK"
tagline: "Chat SDK was designed to help developers build apps in a quick and easy way."
desc: "Chat SDK eases the use of our Messaging APIs. With Chat SDK, you can create an app in just a few minutes."
---

# Introduction

**Chat SDK** was designed to help developers build apps in a quick and easy way. Under the hood, it makes use of the LiveChat [Messaging APIs](/messaging/), taking care of this part for you.

By default, Chat SDK comes with a method for sending plain text messages, which is a great starting point for further development.
Based on the method template we provide, you can easily build other methods.
Thanks to that, you have the flexibility to cover the functionalities you need for your app, for example sending rich messages.

If Messaging APIs seem too intimidating or you just want to build something real quick, **Chat SDK** is your way to go.

## Versioning

This is the version 0.1.0 of Chat SDK.

## Initial configuration

### Authorization

To use Chat SDK, you will need to provide an access token authorizing you with the [Agent Chat API](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/).

If you don't know how to get one, make sure to check out these resources:

- [Agent authorization flows](/getting-started/authorization/#agent-authorization-flows/)
- [Messaging APIs in practice](/getting-started/guides/messaging-apis-in-practice/)

### Debugging

A useful feature you can configure is the debugging mode. By default, it's turned off. But if you want to display all messages exchanged with the LiveChat API, you can turn it on
by setting `debug: true`. It may come in handy for troubleshooting as it will also display errors.

<CodeSample>

```js
const chat = new ChatSDK({ debug: true })
```

</CodeSample>

### Region

By default, you'll be connected to a data center in the United States. If you want to change the data center to Europe, specify `region: europe` in the configuration object.

<CodeSample>

```js
const chat = new ChatSDK({ region: "europe" })
```

</CodeSample>

### API version

By default, you'll make request to the current stable API version. To change it to different version, for example v3.0, set `apiVersion: 3.0` in the configuration object.

<CodeSample>

```js
const chat = new ChatSDK({ apiVersion: "3.0" })
```

</CodeSample>

## Installing Chat SDK

To install **Chat SDK**, run the following command:

<CodeSample>

``` 
npm i @livechat/chat-sdk 
```

</CodeSample>

# Data structures

The LiveChat system is based on four basic types of entities - users, chats, events, and threads. 

| Data structure | Description | Sample  |
| -------------- | ----------- | ---------------- | 
| **Chat**       | Chats consist of threads.    | [Chat](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#chats)  |
| **Thread**     | Threads are parts of a chat. They consist of events. They provide continuous chat experience. | [Thread](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#thread) |                    
| **Event**      | Users can add events to chats (for example send a message), which are then added to threads automatically. | [Events](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#events) | 
| **User**       | There are two basic types of users: Agent and Customer. Users can participate in multiple concurrent chats. | [Agent](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#agent) [Customer](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#customer) | 

All these concepts are thoroughly described in [Messaging Overview](/messaging/#key-concepts).

# Methods

### init

It handles authorization, intializes the WebSocket connection, attaches event listeners, and then logs in the Agent.

<CodeSample>

```js 
chatSDK.init({
  access_token: access_token
})
```

</CodeSample>

#### Parameters

| Parameter      | Required | Data type | Notes                                                                                                  |
| -------------- | -------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `access_token` |   Yes    | `object`  | See [Authorization](#authorization) to learn how to get an access token. Optionally, you can acquire it directly from [Accounts SDK](/getting-started/authorization/sign-in-with-livechat/#sdk-documentation) and pass it in to the `init()` method. The **Simple Agent** app uses this mechanism. |

### destroy

It clears any stored resources, removes all listeners, and disconnects from the network. After using this method you won't be able to use the destroyed SDK instance.

<CodeSample>

```js 
chatSDK.destroy() 
```

</CodeSample>

### getAgentDetails

It allows you to get information about the currently logged in Agent.

<CodeSample>

```js 
chatSDK.getAgentDetails() 
  .then(agentData => {
    // access to the agentData object
  }) 
  .catch(error => {
    // catch an error object
  })
```

</CodeSample>

### sendMessage 

It sends a plain text message.

<CodeSample>

```js
const chatId = "PJ0MRSHTDG"
const message = "Hello world"

chatSDK.sendMessage(chatId, message)
    .then(event => {
        // get event_id or handle a success scenario
    })
    .catch(error => {
        // catch an error object
    })
```

</CodeSample>

#### Parameters

| Parameter  | Required | Data type | Notes                                         |
| ---------- | -------- | --------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| chat_id    |   Yes    | `string`  | Id of chat that you want to send a message to |
| message    |   Yes    | `string`  | Message content                               |
| recipients |   No     | `string`  | Possible values: `all` (default), `agents`    |

#### Returned value 

| Value    | Data type |
| -------- | --------- |
| event_id | `string`  |


### Creating custom methods
This SDK supports the RTM transport. For that reason, make sure you use the [Agent Chat API RTM](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/) reference. 
When creating your custom methods, base on the payloads from the [Agent Chat RTM API methods](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#methods).

In the example below, we're creating a custom method that returns chat thread summaries.
As you can see in the [documentation](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#get-chat-threads-summary), only `chat_id` is required, but you can include other optional parameters in your custom method.

<CodeSample>

```js
const getChatThreadsSummary = (chatId) => chatSDK.methodFactory({
    action: "get_chat_threads_summary",
    payload: { "chat_id": chatId }
})

getChatThreadsSummary("PJ0MRSHTDG") 
    .then(data => {
        // get a list of thread summaries
    })
    .catch(error => {
        // catch an error
    })
```

</CodeSample>


### on
The **on** method subscribes to emitted events.


<CodeSample>

```js
chatSDK.on("event_name", (data) => {
    console.log(data)
})
```

</CodeSample>

Here's what you can listen for:

| Event name   | Action     | 
| ------------ | ---------- |
| `ready`      | You've been successfully logged in. You're now ready to use all API methods. |
| Pushes       | Refer to [documentation](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#pushes). |

### off
The **off** method unsubsribes from emitted events.

<CodeSample>

```js
chatSDK.off("event_name", (data) => {
    console.log(data)
})
```

</CodeSample>

### once
The **once** method subscribes to emitted events and unsubscribes right after the callback function has been called.

<CodeSample>

```js
chatSDK.once("event_name", (data) => {
      console.log(data)
  })
```

</CodeSample>

Here's what you can listen for:

| Event name   | Action     | 
| ------------ | ---------- |
| `ready`      | You've been successfully logged in. You're now ready to use all API methods. |
|  Pushes      | Refer to [documentation](/messaging/agent-chat-api/rtm-reference/#pushes).   |

# Simple Agent

To show you **Chat SDK** in action, we've prepared a sample app, **Simple Agent** . It's primary function is to send text messages. Apart from that, it gives you access to previous conversations, 
as well as the info about the current Agent.

![LiveChat Chat SDK](livechat-chat-sdk.png)

To run the app, follow a few steps:

1. [Create an app](/getting-started/guides/#creating-livechat-apps) in Developer Console. You need it to get **Client Id**. Once the app is created, you can find your **Client Id** in
**Building Blocks -> Authorization** in Developer Console.

2. Configure the **Authorization** building block by entering _http://localhost:3000/_ in **Redirect URI whitelist** and by adding the following scopes:
    - chats--my:ro
    - chats.conversation--all:rw
    - chats.conversation--access:rw
    - chats.conversation--my:rw

3. Go to **Private installation** and install the app.

4. Paste your **Client Id** into the `.env` file in the **example** folder.

5. Run **Simple Agent** with the following commands:

```js
npm run install-example //install dependencies 

npm run start-example //start the app
```

To start a chat, log in to you LiveChat account and choose the **Preview live** option available in the **Settings** tab. You'll now be able to receive messages and respond to them from within **Simple Agent**.

It's worth mentioning that all functions invoked before logging in are queued. Once you're logged in, they are executed in the same order as they were invoked.  


# Changelog

**-- [v0.1.0] - 2019-11-27 --**

Initial alpha release.

# Questions
If you found a bug or a typo, you can let us know directly on GitHub.
In case of any questions or feedback, don't hesitate to contact us at [developers@livechatinc.com](mailto:developers@livechatinc.com). We'll be happy to help!
