# SDK documentation

## Methods

### **AccountsSDK.init({ ... })**
> Example `init()` method usage

```js
var instance = AccountsSDK.init({
  client_id: '<your_client_id>',
  onIdentityFetched: (error, data) => {
    // ...
  }
});
```

Initiates the SDK and returns AccountsSDK object instance. Accepts an object with the following properties:

* **client_id** – obtainted from [Developers Console](https://developers.livechatinc.com/console/) when you create your app.

<!--
* **response_type** – Defines the type of response that you will receive in `onIdentityFetched` callback. Two options are supported:<br><br>**token** (default) – response will include `access_token` that can be immediately used for calling REST API methods. Best suitable for client-side apps.<br><br>**code** – response will include `code` that can be exchanged for `access_token` and `refresh_token`. Best suitable for backend apps that authorize the user only once and refresh `access_token` themselves from now on.<br><br>Read more about client-side and backend apps in <a href="https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/OAuth2#webserver">Google OAuth tutorial</a>.
-->

* **onIdentityFetched(error, data)** – callback invoked when user's identity is fetched. Callback will include either `error` or `data` object depending on current user authorization status.<br>You will find detailed documentation in <a href="#response-format">Response format</a> section.

<aside class="notice"><code>AccountsSDK</code> object exposes only one method: <code>init()</code>. All other methods must be called by the object instance returned by the <code>init()</code> method.</aside>

### **instance.openPopup()**
> Example `openPopup()` method usage:

```js
// javascript
var instance = AccountsSDK.init({ ... });
```
```html
<!-- html -->
<a href="" onclick="instance.openPopup()">Sign in with LiveChat</a>
```

Binds `onclick` param for custom HTML `<a>` element that replaces the "Sign in with LiveChat" button. See the example of custom button in <a href="#prepare-button-container">Prepare button container</a> section.

### **instance.signOut(callback)**
> Example `signOut()` method usage:

```js
// javascript
var instance = AccountsSDK.init({ ... });

function signMeOut(e) {
  e.preventDefault();

  instance.signOut(function() {
    console.log('User signed out');
  });
}
```
```html
<a href="" onclick="signMeOut(event)">Sign out</a>
```

Signs the user out and invokes `callback` function (with no arguments) when it's done.

### **instance.displayButtons()**
> Example `displayButtons()` method usage:

```js
var instance = AccountsSDK.init({ ... });

// some DOM changes which cause buttons to disappear from DOM
// (...)

// inject buttons once again
instance.displayButtons();
```

Renders "Sign in with LiveChat" buttons once again in the DOM. Helpful when you reload the app's state and DOM is cleared. This method is automatically invoked by the `init` method.


## Response format
`onIdentityFetched` callback is the heart of this SDK. It will be fired when user's authorization status is fetched. This is where you pass authorization `access_token` to your app to build what you need.

### Success
If the user passes through "Sign in with LiveChat" flow, `error` param will be null and `data` param will include authorization data:

<!--, depending on `response_code` param value.-->

<!--If `response_code` was set to **access_token**:-->

* **access_token** – used for authorization in REST API calls,
* **scopes** – array of scopes that ``access_token`` has access to,
* **expires_in** – number of seconds from now that ``access_token`` will be valid,
* **entity_id** – LiveChat's user email,
* **license** – LiveChat license number,
* **client_id** – `client_id` that you passed in the `init` method.

<!--
<br>
If `response_code` was set to **code**:

* **code** – must be exchanged to `access_token` and `refresh_token`,
* **scopes** – array of scopes that ``access_token`` generated by this code will have access to,
* **expires_in** – number of seconds from now that ``code`` will be valid,
* **entity_id** – LiveChat's user email,
* **license** – LiveChat license number,
* **client_id** – `client_id` that you passed in the `init` method.
-->

### Error

If the user is not logged in to LiveChat, `data` param will be `null` and `error` param will include the following properties:

#### Authentication errors

* **identity_exception** – error type. Possible values:<br><br>
  * `invalid_request` – request is missing a required parameter, includes an invalid parameter value, includes a parameter more than once or is otherwise malformed.<br><br>
  * `unauthorized` – request is valid, but identity data is wrong or identity does not exists. If identity id is known, it's added to querystring as `entity_id`.<br><br>
  * `server_error` – server encountered an unexpected condition that prevented it from determining identity.<br><br>
  * `access_denied` – identity is known, but access is denied because of business reasons. For example identity can be banned or has wrong unsupported account version.<br><br>

#### Authorization errors
* **oauth_exception** – error type. Possible values:<br><br>
  * `invalid_request` – request is missing a required parameter, includes an invalid parameter value, includes a parameter more than once or is otherwise malformed. Examples: wrong HTTP method, invalid HTTP body encoding.<br><br>
  * `unauthorized_client` – client is not authorized to request a token using this method. Examples: missing `client_id` param, incorrect `client_id` value, `refresh_token` not found, invalid `client_secret`, invalid `redirect_uri`.<br><br>
  * `access_denied` – resource owner or authorization server denied the request. For example, requested scope includes a scope not originally granted by the resource owner.<br><br>
  * `unsupported_response_type` – authorization server does not support obtaining a token using this method. For example, `response_type` is not `token`.<br><br>
  * `invalid_scope` – requested scope is invalid, insufficient, unknown or malformed. Examples: scope not found, scope name not found.<br><br>
  * `server_error` – authorization server encountered an unexpected condition that prevented it from fulfilling the request. For example, server is not responding.<br><br>
  * `temporarily_unavailable` – authorization server is currently unable to handle the request due to a temporary overloading or maintenance of the server.<br><br>
  * `unsupported_grant_type` – authorization grant type is not supported by the authorization server. For example, user is using disabled authorization grant type, such as <a href="https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-4.4">client credentials grant</a>.<br><br>
  * `invalid_grant` – provided authorization grant (authorization code, resource owner credentials) or refresh token is invalid, expired, revoked, does not match the redirection URI used in the authorization request or was issued to another client. Examples: refresh token expired, access token expires.<br><br>
  * `invalid_client` client authentication failed (unknown client, no client authentication included, unsupported authentication method). For example, user is using refresh token with wrong `client_id`.<br><br>
  * `missing_grant` – client is missing granted rights. Examples: grants were rejected, grants were never given, client changed required grants.<br><br>

* **exception_details** – error description. It is returned only in some cases. Possible values:<br><br>
  * `client_id_not_found` – wrong `client_id`, `client_id` does not exist.<br><br>
  * `redirect_uri_not_set` – client misconfiguration, client has not set redirect uri.<br><br>
  * `invalid_redirect_uri` – redirect uri is not one of client's allowed redirects.<br><br>
  * `too_many_redirects` – server has detected redirect loop, client should not redirect too many times.
